PRAGMATISM AND PERSONIFICATION

S

6%

ence in the decisions that govern them. Justice, on the con-

trary, 1s concerned with the decisions that the standing polit-

ical institutions, whether or not they have been chosen fairly,

ought to make. If we accept justice as a political virtue we

want our legislators and other ofhicials to distribute material

resources and protect civil liberties so as to secure a morally

defensible outcome. Procedural due process is a matter of the

right procedures for judging whether some citizen has vio-

lated laws laid down by the political procedures;* if we ac-

cept 1t as a virtue, we want courts and similar institutions to

use procedures of evidence, discovery, and review that prom-

ise the right level of accuracy and otherwise treat people ac-

cused of violation as people in that position ought to be

treated.

These quick distinctions are prologue to a crucial point.’

Ordinary politics adds to these familiar 1deals a further one

that has no distinct place in utopian axiomatic theory. This

i1s sometimes described in the catch phrase that we must

treat like cases alike. It requires government to speak with

one voice, to act in a principled and coherent manner to-

ward all its citizens, to extend to everyone the substantive

standards of justice or fairness it uses for some. If govern-

ment relies on principles of majoritarian democracy to jus-

tify its decisions about who may vote, it must respect the

same principles in designing voting districts.® If it appeals to

the principle that people have a right to compensation from

those who injure them carelessly, as its reason why manufac-

turers are liable for defective automobiles, it must give full

effect to that principle in deciding whether accountants are

liable for their mistakes as well.” If government says that a

unanimous verdict 1s necessary for criminal conviction be-

cause special moral harm is suffered when someone 1s un-

justly convicted of a crime, then it must take that special

moral harm into account in considering, for example, the

8

admissibility of confessions under various circumstances.

This particular demand of political morality 1s not in fact

well described in the catch phrase that we must treat like
