CONVENTIONALISM

121

tions, and this claim requires showing that the behavior of

judges generally, even those who are not conventionalists,

converges sufficiently to allow us to find convention in that

convergence.

At first sight this project looks promising. Almost everyone

in Britain and the United States who has any acquaintance

with law believes that Parliament and Congress and the var-

1ous state legislatures make law and that past judicial deci-

sions must be given credit in later ones. Indeed, all this seems

self-evident, for these propositions are among the central

legal paradigms of our day. Moreover, for most people the

law these 1nstitutions make i1s the law that counts in their

lives. All the legal rules vital to them—the rules fixing taxa-

tion, welfare payments, labor relations, credit arrangements,

and rent—were born and live in particular acts of legisla-

tion, and litigation is increasingly a matter of judges finding

pertinent sections In some statute or set of administrative

regulations and deciding what these mean. No doubt many

fewer laymen are aware of the parallel legal practice of prec-

edent. But most of them have some vague understanding

that past judicial decisions must be respected 1n the future,

and anyone’s practical experience with litigation will con-

firm this sense, for the opinions of judges are stuffed with ref-

erences to earlier decisions of other judges. So the crucial

interpretive assumption of conventionalism, that our legal

practice can sensibly be seen as structured by central and

pervasive legal conventions about legislation and precedent,

seems to be reflected in ordinary experience. Now take a

closer look.

Assume for the moment that in the United States the

Constitution, the statutes enacted by Congress and the legis-

latures of the several states, and past judicial decisions are,

by convention, all grounds of law. According to convention-

alism, an American judge 1s therefore obliged, by the best

interpretation of the practice to which he belongs, to enforce

whatever these conventions declare to be law in particular

cases, whether he approves of that law or not. But in order to
