WHAT IS LAW?

ol

been wrong. The exact form of the strict doctrine varies from

place to place; it 1s different in the United States and Britain,

and 1t differs from state to state within the United States.

According to most lawyers’ view of the strict doctrine in Brit-

ain, the Court of Appeal, which is just below the House of

Lords 1n authority, has no choice but to follow its own past

decisions, but American lawyers deny that the comparable

courts in their hierarchy are constrained in this way. Law-

yers within a particular jurisdiction sometimes disagree

about the details, at least, of the strict doctrine as it ap-

plies to them: most American lawyers think that the lower

federal courts are absolutely bound to follow past deci-

sions of the Supreme Court, but that view 1s challenged by

Pl

N10] 00 LN

The relaxed doctrine of precedent, on the other hand, de-

mands only that a judge give some weight to past decisions

on the same issue, that he must follow these unless he thinks

them sufficiently wrong to outweigh the initial presumption

in their favor. This relaxed doctrine may embrace the past

decisions not only of courts above him or at the same level in

his jurisdiction but of courts in other states or countries. Ob-

viously, much depends on how strong the initial presump-

tion is taken to be. Once again, opinion varies among

lawyers from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but it i1s also likely

to vary within a jurisdiction to a greater extent than opinion

about the dimensions of the strict doctrine. Any judge 1s

likely to give more weight to past decisions of higher than of

lower courts in his own jurisdiction, however, and to past

decisions of all these courts than to courts of other jurisdic-

tions. He may well give more weight to recent decisions of

any court than to earlier ones, more weight to decisions

written by powerful or famous judges than to those written

by mediocre judges, and so forth. Two decades ago the

House of Lords declared that the strict doctrine of precedent

does not require it to follow its own past decisions**—before

that declaration British lawyers had assumed that the strict

doctrine did require this—but the House nevertheless gives
