STATUTES

344

able: they can be written into the text of the statute itself.

British lawyers have that argument for British practice,

which 1nsists that statements made 1n Parliament must not

be used as guides to statutory interpretation. It 1s an impor-

tant argument, not because 1t is decisive against the different

American practice, but because it shows that the latter is

justified only if 1t establishes some special role for legislative

history, some status intermediate between the informal ob-

servations of legislators, made tactically in the heat of de-

bate, and the formal text of the statute itself.

It is not difficult to identity an intermediate status, for we

have one available, well suited for the purpose, in personal

morality. We distinguish between a person’s promises and

other commitments and the explanations or interpretations

he himself offers of them, his account of how these fit into

and flow from his more general beliefs and purposes; we

treat both as having moral significance, but we count the ex-

planations as more tentative, more open to revision and

change. Suppose I give my nephew $100, and I explain that

I admire his choice of a military career and wish to help him

in it. He may then expect that I will help him in that career

in other ways; he will be surprised when I later say that I

now think his career unsavory and will oppose it in whatever

way I can, by refusing to introduce him to my martial

friends, for example. Or suppose I start up a new factory and

promise the community that I will install and maintain any

“reasonable” device to ensure that my factory does not in-

crease pollution. I am asked 1n a television interview whether

I think a particular device is reasonable, and I say that I do.

But later I decide not to install that device: I say that further

information has convinced me, contrary to my previous

opinion, that it is not reasonable because almost as much

protection can be provided by different and much less ex-

pensive measures. In each case my earlier explanatory state-

ment Is part of my moral record, something for which I must

take responsibility because I made the statement knowing

others would probably rely on it and encouraging them
