STATUTES

349

and 1nstitutions whose statements or convictions might be

rclevant in different ways.

Consider the argument from fairness that made him pay

attention to concrete legislative convictions so far as he could

discover these, even when they disagreed with his own. That

argument does not require Hercules to identify particular

legislators as crucial, or to fix on the opinions of any decisive

number of legislators as if convictions were counted like

votes. Fairness tells Hercules to look to whichever expression

of political views seems relevant to deciding whether a par-

ticular statute, constructed according to an interpretation he

1s considering, would be fair, given the character and spread

of public opinion. In this context the televised address of an

important politician might be more important than the fine

print of a committee report.

Now consider how passing time affects this argument from

fairness. The speaker’s meaning theory stares at convictions

present and expressed when a statute was passed and ignores

later changes. Only “original” intentions can be pertinent to

discovering a statute’s meaning at its birth; an appeal to

changed opinion must be an anachronism, a logically ab-

surd excuse for judicial amendment. Hercules’ attitude is

very different. Suppose the Endangered Species Act had

been enacted 1n a climate of public opinion very different

from what he encounters when he must decide the snail

darter case. He asks which interpretation provides the best

account of a political history that now includes not only the

act but the failure to repeal or amend 1t later, and he will

therefore look not to public opinion at the beginning, when

conservation was in flower, but now, when 1t must be de-

cided whether the secretary can waste large public funds to

save a minor specles. The argument from fairness will have a

very different impact than it would have if the case had

come before him much earlier.

The argument from textual integrity will also be sensitive

to time because 1t will take account of other decisions that

(‘ongress and the courts have made in the meantime; if shifts
