THE CONSTITUTION

393

DECIDING BAKKE

I will not pursue the history of Brown’s progeny or this de-

fense of the more interventionist decisions that followed it,

because neither story is particularly important to the consti-

tutional wardrobe of law as integrity. We turn instead to a

different problem, a child of the success rather than the fail-

ures of the revolution Brown began. The conscience of

American business and education, and its prudence as well,

was stirred by the racial wars of the 1960s, and programs col-

lectively called affirmative action or reverse discrimination

were part of their response. We can settle for a very rough

description of these programs: they aimed to improve the

place and number of black and other minorities in labor,

commerce, and the professions by giving them some form of

preference in hiring, promotion, and admission to college

and professional schools. The preference was sometimes in-

distinct, a matter of counting a person’s race or ethnic back-

ground as an advantage that could secure him a place, “all

else being equal,” which i1t never was. But sometimes the

preference was both explicit and mechanical.

The medical school of the University of California at

Davis, for example, used a bifurcated system for judging ap-

plicants: a quota was set apart for minority applicants who

competed only among themselves for a designated number

of places, with the consequence that some blacks were ac-

cepted whose test scores and other conventional qualifica-

tions were far below those of whites who were rejected. Alan

Bakke was one of the latter, and it was conceded, in the liti-

gation he provoked, that he would have been accepted had

he been black. He said that this quota system was unlawful

because it did not treat him as an equal in the contest for

places, and the Supreme Court, justifying its decision in a

divided and somewhat confused set of opinions, agreed.”

How would Justice Hercules have voted? The case forces

him to confront the issue he found unnecessary to decide for
