INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

Re

by history and convention. Interpretation therefore plays

only an external role in games and contests. It 1s crucial to

my story about courtesy, however, that the citizens of cour-

tesy adopt the second component of the attitude as well as

the first; for them interpretation decides not only why cour-

tesy exists but also what, properly understood, it now re-

quires. Value and content have become entangled.

How Courtesy Changes

Suppose that before the interpretive attitude takes hold in

both its components, everyone assumes that the point of

courtesy lies in the opportunity it provides to show respect to

social superiors. No question arises whether the traditional

forms of respect are really those the practice requires. These

just are the forms of deference, and the available options are

conformity or rebellion. When the full interpretive attitude

develops, however, this assumed point acquires critical

power, and people begin to demand, under the title of cour-

tesy, forms of deference previously unknown or to spurn or

refuse forms previously honored, with no sense of rebellion,

claiming that true respect 1s better served by what they do

than by what others did. Interpretation folds back into the

practice, altering its shape, and the new shape encourages

further reinterpretation, so the practice changes dramati-

cally, though each step in the progress 1s interpretive of what

the last achieved.

People’s views about the proper grounds of respect, for ex-

ample, may change from rank to age or gender or some other

property. The main beneficiaries of respect would then be

social superiors in one period, older people in another,

women in a third, and so forth. Or opinions may change

about the nature or quality of respect, from a view that ex-

ternal show constitutes respect to the opposite view, that re-

spect 1s a matter of feelings only. Or opinions may change

along a different dimension, about whether respect has any

value when 1t is directed to groups or for natural properties
