NOTES TO PAGES 274-275

441

structed as an analytical device were meant to express his theory

of human nature. That misreading was not encouraged by the text

and 1s disowned in the later articles just cited.) Second, none of

these “liberals” except Hobbes (why should Hobbes be counted a

liberal?) adopted any form of skepticism about the possibility that

one way of leading one’s life can be better or more valuable than

another. Mill, for example, notoriously rejected skepticism about

personal values. The critical legal studies picture of liberalism

confuses that form of skepticism, which most liberals reject, with

the entirely different principle they accept, that claims about the

relative value of personal goals do not provide competent justifi-

cations for regulative political decisions. Third, this picture of lib-

eralism confuses that principle, about the neutrality of government

toward conceptions of the good, with an alleged neutrality about

principles of justice, which of course liberalism, because it is a the-

ory of justice, must reject. It 1s absurd to say that a liberal cannot

appeal to a principle of justice to explain why those whose

“values’™ impel them to assault others should be restrained from

doing so. Tushnet should not have made these mistakes about

what his “‘classical hiberals” think. He cites an article of mine as

authority for his view about what I, together with his other liber-

als, believe. In that article I argue that the constitutive morality of

liberalism ““1s a theory of equality that requires official neutrality

amongst theories ol what 1s valuable n life. That argument will

provoke a variety of objections. It might be said that liberalism so

concelved rests on skepticism about theories of the good, or that it

1s based on a mean view of human nature that assumes that

human beings are atoms who can exist and find self-fulfillment

apart from political community ... [But] liberalism cannot be

based on skepticism. Its constitutive morality provides that

human beings must be treated as equals by their government, not

because there is no right and wrong in political morality, but be-

cause that 1s what is right. Liberalism does not rest on any special

theory of personality, nor does it deny that most human beings

will think that what 1s good for them is that they be active in so-

ciety. Liberalism 1s not self-contradictory: the liberal conception of

equality 1s a principle of political organization that is required by

justice, not a way of life for individuals.” See A Matter of Principle at

203.

20. ‘““T’here are two principles competing for attention [in the
