184

INTEGRITY

S —

ordinary standards of personal morality, he ought not to

have done. The state lacks integrity because it must endorse

principles to justify part of what it has done that 1t must re-

ject to justify the rest. That explanation distinguishes integ-

rity from the perverse consistency of someone who refuses to

rescue some prisoners because he cannot save all. If he had

saved some, selected arbitrarily, he would not have violated

any principle he needs to justity other acts. But a state does

act that way when 1t accepts a Solomonic checkerboard so-

lution; 1t is inconsistency 1n principle among the acts of the

state personified that integrity condemns.

Integrity and the Constitution

Checkerboard statutes are the most dramatic violations of

the 1ideal of integrity, and they are not unknown to our polit-

ical history. The United States Constitution contained at its

birth particularly hideous examples: the problem of slavery

was compromised by counting three-fifths of a state’s slaves

in determining the state’s representation in Congress and

forbidding Congress to limit the original states’ power to

import slaves, but only before 1808.” Integrity is flouted not

only in specific compromises of that character, however, but

whenever a community enacts and enforces different laws

each of which 1s coherent 1n itself, but which cannot be de-

tended together as expressing a coherent ranking of different

principles of justice or fairness or procedural due process. We

know that our own legal structure constantly violates integ-

rity in this less dramatic way. We cannot bring all the vari-

ous statutory and common-law rules our judges enforce

under a single coherent scheme of principle. (I discuss some

consequences of that fact in Chapter 11.) But we neverthe-

less accept integrity as a political i1deal. It is part of our col-

lective political morality that such compromises are wrong,

that the community as a whole and not just individual ofh-

cials one by one must act in a principled way.

In the United States this 1deal 1s to some extent a matter
