THE COMMON LAW

r1e P

degree that they look after their own. We might try to ex-

plain that conviction in two ways. We might assume, first,

that people always have that egalitarian responsibility, that

they must always, in everything they do, consider the inter-

ests of all others to be as important as their own or those of

their family and friends. Then the egalitarian responsibility

that accident law enforces is only a special instance of a per-

vasive moral responsibility. Or we might try to show, second,

that though people do not have that burdensome responsi-

bility generally, they do in the circumstances of negligence

or nuisance cases, for a reason we must then disclose.

The present utilitarian argument, we now see, takes up

the first of these strategies. It supposes that we must always,

in everything we do, treat the interests of others as equally

important to our own. It offers a debatable account of what

that means in practice, but we are accepting that account,

for the sake of the argument, by conceding the argument’s

second and third steps. We are now studying the first step,

which assumes that we each have a pervasive moral responsi-

bility always to show equal concern for others. Most of us do

not accept that pervasive responsibility. We think we are

normally free, morally as well as legally, to prefer our own

interests and projects, and those of a small number of other

people to whom we feel special associative responsibilities

and ties, in the day-to-day decisions we make using our own

property. We accept that sometimes we must not favor our-

selves and those close to us in that way, and 1n particular we

accept that we must not do so in the circumstances of nui-

sance and negligence, but must instead count an injury to a

stranger as equal in importance to an 1njury to ourselves.

But we feel that these circumstances are for some reason spe-

cial. We use, that is, the second strategy to explain them.

We think the circumstances of negligence and nuisance

are special, moreover, in a particular way that makes our

moral responsibilities parasitic on, and thus sensitive to, our

legal responsibilities. I shall have to explain this connection

in more detail and more apt language later in this chapter,
