1RO

JURISPRUDENCE REVISITED

referenced. The different questions in this list, and the vast

variety of further questions for which they stand surrogate,

must be answered together, in one complex though incom-

plete theory, if the answers are to stand coherent or even

make any sense at all. Each part will in some way depend on

the rest because they will be knit together by some unifying

vision of the connection between legal practice and political

justification. So any general conception must also have ex-

ternal connections to other parts or departments of political

morality and, through these, to more general ideological and

even metaphysical convictions. I do not mean that any law-

yer or philosopher who takes up a general conception of law

will already have developed some explicit and articulate

view about the point of law, or the large questions of person-

ality, life, and community on which any such view must rest.

I mean only that his conception of law, so far as he has devel-

oped 1it, will reveal some attitude toward these large topics

whether or not he realizes this.

SKEPTICAL CONCEPTIONS AND WICKED LAW

Did the Nazis Have Law?

I said that legal pragmatism 1s a skeptical conception of law

because it rejects the assumption that past decisions provide

rights to future ones. Some legal philosophers, whose views

closely resemble that conception, express them in the nihili-

stic claim that there 1s no law, that law 1s an illusion. We

shall explore these claims further when we study legal

pragmatism at greater length in Chapter 5. But we should

first notice a different, more discriminating claim some legal

philosophers have made: that in some nations or circum-

stances there is no law, in spite of the existence of familiar

legal institutions like legislatures and courts, because the

practices of these institutions are too wicked to deserve that

title. We have little trouble making sense of that claim once

we understand that theories of law are interpretive. For we
