INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

5!

between ordinary and objective opinions; if he really be-

lieves, in the internally skeptical way, that no moral judg-

ment 1s really better than any other, he cannot then add that

in his opinion slavery 1s unjust.

Conclusions and Agenda

I end this long section with an apology and some advice. We

have marched up a steep hill and then right down again. We

know no more about interpretation, or about morality or

courtesy or justice or law, than we did when we began to

consider the skeptical challenge. For my argument has been

entirely defensive. Skeptics declare deep error in the inter-

pretive attitude as I described 1t; they say 1t 1s a mistake to

suppose that one interpretation of a social practice, or of

anything else, can be right or wrong or really better than

another. If we construe that complaint on the model of ex-

ternal skepticism, then, for the reasons I gave, the complaint

is confused. If we construe it more naturally as a piece of

global internal skepticism, then all the argument waits to be

made. We stand where we did, only put on more explicit no-

tice of the possible threat of this latter, potentially very da-

maging, form of argument.

I marched up this hill and down again only because the

skeptical challenge, sensed as the challenge of external skep-

ticism, has a powerful hold on lawyers. They say, of any

thesis about the best account of legal practice in some

department of the law, ““T’hat’s your opinion,” which is true

but to no point. Or they ask, “How do you know?” or

“Where does that claim come from?” demanding not a case

they can accept or oppose but a thundering knock-down

metaphysical demonstration no one can resist who has the

wit to understand. And when they see that no argument of

that power is in prospect, they grumble that jurisprudence is

subjective only. Then, finally, they return to their knit-

ting—making, accepting, resisting, rejecting arguments in

the normal way, consulting, revising, deploying convictions
