INTEGRITY IN LAW

201

claim that he has discovered, through his political choice,

what the /aw 1s. He 1s only offering his own opinion about

what it should be.”

This objection will seem powerful to many readers, and

we must take care not to weaken it by making 1t seem to

claim more than it does. It does not try to reinstate the idea

of conventionalism, that when convention runs out a judge is

free to improve the law according to the right legislative

standards; still less the 1dea of pragmatism that he is always

free to do this, checked only by considerations of strategy. It

acknowledges that judges must choose between interpreta-

tions that survive the test of fit. It insists only that there can

be no best interpretation when more than one survives that

test. It 1s an objection, as I have framed 1t, from within the

general idea of law as integrity; it tries to protect that idea

from corruption by fraud.

Is the objection sound? Why is it fraudulent, or even con-

fusing, for Hercules to offer his judgment as a judgment of

law? Once again, two somewhat different answers—two

ways of elaborating the objection—are available, and we

cannot do credit to the objection unless we distinguish them

and consider each. The first elaboration 1s this: “Hercules’

claim is fraudulent because it suggests that there can be a

right answer to the question whether interpretation (5) or (6)

1s fairer or more just; since political morality 1s subjective

there cannot be a single right answer to that question, but

only answers.” This is the challenge of moral skepticism I

discussed at length in Chapter 2. I cannot escape saying

something more about it now, but I will use a new critic,

with a section of his own, to do so. The second elaboration

does not rely on skepticism: “Hercules 1s a fraud even if mo-

rality is objective and even if he is right that the principle of

foreseeability he settled on is objectively fairer and more

just. He is a fraud because he pretends he has discovered

what the law is, but he has only discovered what it should

be.” That 1s the form of the objection I shall consider here.

We ask of a conception of law that it provide an account
