LT

NOTES TO PAGE 275

law of compensation for accidents]. The currently favored princi-

ple i1s admittedly individualistic. A tortfeasor’s liability must be

limited so as to provide some rough correlation between the de-

gree of fault and the extent of responsibility. Accordingly, lowing

from the central notion of fault, a defendant is only liable for dam-

age that is reasonably foreseeable

. However, an exclusive re-

liance on such a principle might deprive entirely innocent and

worthy victims of compensation. Consequently there 1s a compet-

ing, less dominant, but established counter-principle. This stipu-

lates that tortfeasors are liable for any direct consequences of their

actions, notwithstanding that they might not be reasonably fore-

seeable. Although this principle flourished and dominated for a

time, it presently enjoys a more limited range of application in

cases where victims, such as hemophiliacs, are particularly suscep-

tible to injury: ‘a tortfeasor must take his victim as he finds him’

... Each principle is drawn from and is empowered by two en-

tirely different visions of a just democratic society. One rests on an

individualism which represents a world consisting of independent

and self-sufficient persons, confidently drawing up and robustly

pursuing their own life plans. Values and tastes are relative and

subjective . . . The other vision flows from a collectivism that views

the world as made up of interdependent and cooperating persons.

Recognizing the vulnerability of individuals, it encourages greater

solidarity and altruism

.. Each vision represents only a partial

and incomplete depiction of social life and its possibilities

Whichever principle [anyone] opts for 1s simply his preference . . .

[he] has nothing to say by way of persuasion to anyone who dis-

agrees with him.” Allan Hutchinson, “Of Kings and Dirty Ras-

cals: The Struggle for Democracy,” 1985 Queen’s Law Journal 274,

sY R ST

Many of the mottoes popular within critical legal studies Hour-

ish in this argument. Here, for example, 1s the same mistaken

characterization of liberal “individualism” as connected to social

atomism and to the subjectivity of “‘values” that we noticed in

note 19. Here 1s the familar confusion of external and internal

skepticism, yilelding the familiar complaint that liberals are un-

aware that moral convictions are “‘simply” preferences, so that

people have “nothing to say” to support them. (Never mind that

liberals have just been taxed with that form of subjectivism.) Our
