‘H

PN LGOI

I\

(RN

—

judgment on his part, or a series of overall judgments as he

writes and rewrites. He must take up some view about the

novel in progress, some working theory about its characters,

plot, genre, theme, and point, in order to decide what counts

as continuing it and not as beginning anew. If he is a good

critic, his view of these matters will be complicated and

multifaceted, because the value of a decent novel cannot be

captured from a single perspective. He will aim to find layers

and currents of meaning rather than a single, exhaustive

theme. We can, however, in our now familiar way give some

structure to any interpretation he adopts, by distinguishing

two dimensions on which it must be tested. The first is what

we have been calling the dimension of fit. He cannot adopt

any Interpretation, however complex, if he believes that no

single author who set out to write a novel with the various

readings of character, plot, theme, and point that interpre-

tation describes could have written substantially the text he

has been given. That does not mean his interpretation must

fit every bit of the text. It is not disqualified simply because

he claims that some lines or tropes are accidental, or even

that some events of plot are mistakes because they work

against the literary ambitions the interpretation states. But

the interpretation he takes up must nevertheless flow

throughout the text; it must have general explanatory

power, and it is flawed if it leaves unexplained some major

structural aspect of the text, a subplot treated as having

great dramatic importance or a dominant and repeated met-

aphor. If no interpretation can be found that 1s not lawed in

that way, then the chain novelist will not be able fully to

meet his assignment; he will have to settle for an interpreta-

tion that captures most of the text, conceding that it is not

wholly successful. Perhaps even that partial success is un-

available; perhaps every interpretation he considers is incon-

sistent with the bulk of the material supplied to him. In that

case he must abandon the enterprise, for the consequence

of taking the interpretive attitude toward the text in ques-

tion is then a piece of internal skepticism: that nothing
