STATUTES

KL

words the meanings people would assign them if they knew

nothing special about the context of their use—then the

public would have received the statute, and wills might well

have been drafted, under that assumption. Hercules would

then count that fact as a strong, though not necessarily deci-

sive, argument in favor of that construction. But as we shall

see, 1t 1s an argument whose force grows weaker with the

passage of time.

The legislative history surrounding the Endangered Spe-

cies Act was much more complex. We reviewed it in Chapter

1 and noticed that the justices of the Supreme Court dis-

agreed about whether the legislative history should include

the fact that Congress tried to make plain in various deci-

sions taken after the act was passed that the TVA dam was

not to be threatened. Hercules has no reason to doubt that

these later decisions of Congress should be taken into ac-

count. They are part of the public record, later political de-

cistons about the relative importance, in the community’s

overall scheme of purposes, of the different interests at stake.

The contrary view, that these decisions must not be counted,

assumes the temporal constraint we are about to consider,

that a statute’s meaning is fixed in some initial act of crea-

tion. It 1s not difficult, then, to see how Hercules will decide

the snail darter case if he shares the substantive opinion that

seemed dominant on the Court, that the wiser course would

be to sacrifice the fish to the dam. He thinks reading the stat-

ute to save the dam would make 1t better from the point of

view of sound policy. He has no reason of textual integrity

arguing against that reading, nor any reason of fairness, be-

cause nothing suggests that the public would be outraged or

offended by that decision. Nothing in the legislative history

of the bill itself, properly understood and taken as the record

of public decision, argues the other way, and the later legis-

lative decisions of the same character argue strongly for the

reading he himself thinks best. He joins the justices who dis-

sented 1n the case.
