INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

IR

time; the challenger will seem eccentric but will be perfectly

well understood. His challenge will mark the deepening of

disagreement, not, as with someone who says Moby-Dick is

not a book, its superficiality.

Paradigms

There is one more task—Iless challenging but no less impor-

tant—the philosopher might perform for his constituents. At

each historical stage of the development of the institution,

certain concrete requirements of courtesy will strike almost

everyone as paradigms, that is, as requirements of courtesy if

anything i1s. The rule that men must rise when a woman

enters the room, for example, might be taken as a paradigm

for a certain season. The role these paradigms play in rea-

soning and argument will be even more crucial than any ab-

stract agreement over a concept. For the paradigms will be

treated as concrete examples any plausible interpretation

must fit, and argument against an interpretation will take

the form, whenever this is possible, of showing that it fails to

include or account for a paradigm case.

The connection between the institution and the para-

digms of the day will be so intimate, in virtue of this special

role, as to provide another kind of conceptual flavor. Some-

one who rejects a paradigm will seem to be making an ex-

traordinary kind of mistake. But once again there is an

important difference between these paradigms of interpre-

tive truth and cases in which, as philosophers say, a concept

holds “by definition,” as bachelorhood holds of unmarried

men. Paradigms anchor interpretations, but no paradigm is

secure from challenge by a new interpretation that accounts

for other paradigms better and leaves that one 1solated as a

mistake. In our imaginary community, the paradigm of

gender might have survived other transformations for a long

time, just because it seemed so firmly fixed, until it became

an unrecognized anachronism. Then one day women would

object to men standing for them; they might call this the
