S RN B S B DA

RPXe

nity better on the whole. 1T do not mean that she had a com-

plete political, moral, and cconomic theory. Her convictions

of justice, fairness, and wise policy might have been 1ll

formed, incomplete, and more a matter of unreflective intui-

tion or instinct than considered philosophical conclusions.

But she had convictions of this sort nevertheless, and that is

perfectly consistent with her having the other motives I

imagined earlier: a wish to advance her own political or fi-

nanclal career or the political fortunes of her party or the

prosperity of her friends who control large corporations. It is

also consistent with her acting on these other motives in

place of her convictions from time to time or even more

)il

Hermes’ new proposal takes Smith’s “intention” in voting

for the Endangered Species Act to consist in those of her

convictions that would justify her vote, 1f any would. Now,

when he discovers that she did not think about the snail

darter, he has no need to speculate counterfactually about

what she would have hoped or expected or how she would

have voted. He can ask an entirely noncounterfactual ques-

tion: what position about the secretary’s power to halt an

unfinished dam follows most naturally from her political

convictions, so far as he has been able to discover these?

Even if she had never heard of the snail darter, she may nev-

ertheless have had convictions that bear on the problem: she

may have believed, for example, that conservation of species

1s a matter of capital importance, that 1t would be a national

disgrace to allow even one species to perish 1f it could be

saved. In that case Hermes would be justified in concluding

that her actual convictions, so far revealed, would be better

served by protecting the fish rather than the dam. So the

convictions approach altogether avoids the often mysterious

and always arbitrary counterfactual devices so popular in

textbooks on statutory interpretation. Hermes will prefer the

convictions reading to the others he considered on more gen-

eral grounds as well, because the convictions reading is much

better suited to the aims of a community of principle. Mem-
