[

)

]

INTEGRITY IN LAW

mentalization is a feature of legal practice no competent in-

lerpretation can 1gnore.

Hercules responds to these competing impulses by seeking

a constructive interpretation of compartmentalization. He

tries to find an explanation of the practice of dividing law

into departments that shows that practice in its best light.

The boundaries between departments usually match popu-

lar opinion; many people think that intentional harm is

more blameworthy than careless harm, that the state needs a

very different kind of justification to declare someone guilty

of a crime than it needs to require him to pay compensation

for damage he has caused, that promises and other forms of

explicit agreement or consent are a special kind of reason for

state coercion, and so forth. Dividing departments of law to

match that sort of opinion promotes predictability and

guards against sudden official reinterpretations that uproot

large areas of law, and it does this in a way that promotes a

deeper aim of law as integrity. If legal compartments make

sense to people at large, they encourage the protestant atti-

tude integrity favors, because they allow ordinary people as

well as hard-pressed judges to interpret law within practical

boundaries that seem natural and intuitive.

Hercules accepts that account of the point of compart-

mentalization, and he shapes his doctrine of local priority

accordingly. He allows the doctrine most force when the

boundaries between traditional departments of law track

widely held moral principles distinguishing types of fault or

responsibility, and the substance of each department reflects

those moral principles. The distinction between criminal

and civil law meets that test. Suppose Hercules thinks, con-

trary to most people’s opinion, that being made to pay com-

pensation 1s just as bad as being made to pay a fine, and

therefore that the distinction between criminal and civil law

1s unsound 1n principle. He will nevertheless defer to local

priority. He will not claim that criminal and civil law should

be treated as one department; he will not argue that a crimi-

nal defendant’s guilt need only be established as probable
