X e

INTEGRITY IN LAW

McLoughlin compensation for her injury, for example,

means deciding whether legal practice is seen in a better

light 1f we assume the community has accepted the principle

that people in her position are entitled to compensation.

Law as integrity is therefore more relentlessly interpretive

than either conventionalism or pragmatism. These latter

theories offer themselves as interpretations. They are con-

ceptions of law that claim to show our legal practices in the

best light these can bear, and they recommend, in their

postinterpretive conclusions, distinct styles or programs for

adjudication. But the programs they recommend are not

themselves programs of interpretation: they do not ask

judges deciding hard cases to carry out any further, essen-

tially interpretive study of legal doctrine. Conventionalism

requires judges to study law reports and parliamentary

records to discover what decisions have been made by insti-

tutions conventionally recognized to have legislative power.

No doubt interpretive issues will arise in that process: for ex-

ample, it may be necessary to interpret a text to decide what

statutes our legal conventions construct from it. But once a

judge has accepted conventionalism as his guide, he has no

further occasion for interpreting the legal record as a whole

in deciding particular cases. Pragmatism requires judges to

think instrumentally about the best rules for the future.

That exercise may require interpretation of something be-

yond legal material: a utilitarian pragmatist may need to

worry about the best way to understand the 1dea of commu-

nity welfare, for example. But once again, a judge who ac-

cepts pragmatism 1s then done with interpreting legal

practice as a whole.

Law as integrity 1s different: it is both the product of and

the inspiration for comprehensive interpretation of legal

practice. The program it holds out to judges deciding hard

cases 1s essentially, not just contingently, interpretive; law as

integrity asks them to continue interpreting the same mate-

rial that it claims to have successfully interpreted itself. It

offers itself as continuous with—the 1nitial part of—the more
