CONVENTIONALISM

142

undesirable for some other reason: that it is inefhcient, for

example, or imposes unnecessary risks, or frightens people, or

is otherwise not in the general interest.

But conventionalism cannot be justified on the sole

ground that surprise is ineflicient or undesirable in these

ways, because conventionalism does not protect against sur-

prise as well as a simpler and more straightforward theory of

adjudication would. We have already noticed the sense in

which conventionalism 1s bilateral: 1t insists that if no deci-

sion of some case can be found within the explicit extension

of a legal convention one way or the other, the judge is

obliged to make new law as best he can. No convention de-

cides either that Mrs. McLoughlin has a right to compensa-

tion for her emotional injury or that Mr. O’Brian has a right

not to be made to pay it. So neither one has a right to a de-

cision in his or her favor, and the judge must decide the case

according to whichever rule he thinks best for the future, all

things considered. But if he decides for Mrs. McLoughlin,

then he has intervened in Mr. O’Brian’s life even though the

latter was not warned that this would happen.

The political argument for conventionalism I set out a

moment ago supposes that this kind of situation is inevita-

ble, that no theory of adjudication can prevent it. It defends

conventionalism as protecting people from surprise as much

as possible. But if we had that aim in mind exclusively, we

would choose a different theory of adjudication, which we

44

unilater-

might call “unilateral conventionalism” or just

alism.” Roughly, unilateralism provides that the plaintiff

must win if he or she has a right to win established in the ex-

plicit extension of some legal convention, but that otherwise

the defendant must win.® It insists that the status quo be pre-

served in court unless some rule within the explicit extension

of a legal convention requires otherwise. So unilateralism

says Mr. O’Brian must not be made to pay damages for the

emotional injury he caused Mrs. McLoughlin even though

the judge thinks the opposite rule would be better for the

AL A0I g s]
