.

WHAT IS LAW?

guments, what kind of argument 1s 1t? What is the disagree-

ment about?

Let us call “propositions of law” all the various statements

and claims people make about what the law allows or pro-

hibits or entitles them to have. Propositions of law can be

very general—‘“the law forbids states to deny anyone equal

protection within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amend-

ment”’—or much less general—“the law does not provide

compensation for fellow-servant injuries”—or very con-

crete—‘‘the law requires Acme Corporation to compensate

John Smith for the injury he suffered in its employ last Feb-

ruary.” Lawyers and judges and ordinary people generally

assume that some propositions of law, at least, can be true or

false.” But no one thinks they report the declarations of some

ghostly figure: they are not about what Law whispered to

the planets. Lawyers, it is true, talk about what the law

“says” or whether the law 1s “silent” about some issue or

other. But these are just figures of speech.

Everyone thinks that propositions of law are true or false

(or neither) 1n virtue of other, more familiar kinds of proposi-

tions on which these propositions of law are (as we might put

it) parasitic. These more familiar propositions furnish what I

shall call the “grounds” of law. The proposition that no one

may drive over 55 miles an hour in California is true, most

people think, because a majority of that state’s legislators

said “aye” or raised their hands when a text to that effect lay

on their desks. It could not be true if nothing of that sort had

ever happened; it could not then be true just in virtue of

what some ghostly figure had said or what was found on

transcendental tablets in the sky.

Now we can distinguish two ways in which lawyers and

judges might disagree about the truth of a proposition of

law. They might agree about the grounds of law—about

when the truth or falsity of other, more familiar propositions

makes a particular proposition of law true or false—but dis-

agree about whether those grounds are in fact satisfied in a

particular case. Lawyers and judges might agree, for exam-
