THE CONSTITUTION

1

an argument of political morality. It makes this claim: a po-

litical community with a written constitution will be better

in the long run, a fairer and more just and otherwise more

successful community, if it secures stability by making the

correct interpretation of that constitution depend on the

concrete opinions of its authors, no matter how dated these

may be, rather than on fresh, contemporary interpretive de-

cisions that may contradict these. Is that plausible? Some-

times certainty of the law is more important than what the

law i1s; this is true for rules of the road, for example, and per-

haps for rules defining rights and obligations under negotia-

ble commercial paper. But it is not always true. Law as

integrity 1s sensitive to the different marginal value of cer-

tainty and predictability in different circumstances. When

certainty 1s especially important, as in negotiable instru-

ments, the fact that a particular rule has been recognized

and applied in past cases will provide a strong argument for

its place in the best interpretation of that part of the law.

When certainty is relatively unimportant, its power in inter-

pretive argument 1s correspondingly weaker; when I first re-

marked this, in Chapter 4, I cited constitutional cases as

paradigms.

The historicist’s political argument, that is, relies most on

the importance of certainty just when that virtue is least im-

portant to good government. About some constitutional

1ssues 1t does matter more that the law be settled than ex-

actly what the law is. It matters much more that the term of

a president’s office be fixed and not open to fresh considera-

tion by the Supreme Court from time to time than exactly

what the term 1s. Certainty is of the essence, and the issue

must be insulated from self-interest and short-term political

opportunism. If the framers had not understood this, had

not drafted their basic organizational decisions in language

admitting of only one interpretation, their constitution

would not have survived to be worrying jurisprudence now.

Not all constitutional 1ssues are like these, however. In some

it matters a great deal that a settlement be made, but it does
