CONVENTIONALISM

16

controversy case by case. I have not yet challenged the as-

sumption with which conventionalism begins: that whatever

consensus lawyers have achieved about legislation and prec-

edent is properly seen as a matter of convention. Is 1t? That

question asks us to change our focus and consider our legal

practice not in cross-section but over some stretch of time.

Assume that almost every lawyer and judge in Britain ac-

cepts that if a statute 1s duly enacted by Parliament with

royal assent, and there can be no real doubt about what the

language of the statute means, then the law 1s what the stat-

ute plainly says it 1s. They all think this “goes without say-

ing,” and they count it among their paradigms of legal

argument. This assumed consensus has two possible expla-

nations, however. Perhaps lawyers and judges accept that

proposition as true by convention, which means true just be-

cause everyone else accepts it, the way chess players all ac-

cept that a king can move only one square at a time. Or

perhaps lawyers and judges all accept the proposition as ob-

viously true though not true by convention: perhaps the

consensus 1s a consensus of independent conviction, the way

we all accept that it is wrong to torture babies or to convict

people we know are innocent. The difference is this. If law-

yers think a particular proposition about legislation is true

by convention, they will not think they need any substantive

reason for accepting it. So any substantive attack on the

proposition will be out of order within the context of adjudi-

cation, just as an attack on the wisdom of the rules of chess 1s

out of order within a game. But if the consensus 1s one of

conviction, then dissent, however surprising, will not be out

of order in the same way, because everyone will recognize

that an attack on the substantive case for the proposition is

an attack on the proposition itself. The consensus will last

only so long as most lawyers accept the convictions that sup-

port it.

Which explanation provides the better description of how

lawyers and judges treat propositions about legislation that

“go without saying”’? We are unlikely to find much evidence
