RLy!

THE CONSTITUTION

thors. That begs the question too crudely. His task is to show

why the Constitution as law should be understood to be

what the framers concretely thought it was, and he cannot

simply assume that it should be. He might say that the dec-

larations of the framers are decisive because they intended

them to be. That 1s silly for two reasons: we have no evidence

of this meta-intention,

L

and even 1f we did, enforcing it

would beg the question once again. (Suppose a congressman

sald “oul’” when asked if his statutes were valid if written 1n

French.)

The historicist might say that democracy, on his under-

standing of that concept, requires that statesmen who have

been selected by the people to create a constitution should

have the power to decide what it means. But the abstract

description of democracy, that the people must choose their

governors, does not itself indicate how far the extrastatutory

declarations of these governors enters the law they have

made. So he must add some more concrete argument of fair-

ness to his general appeal to democracy. He must show why

democracy’s assumption that the people must have roughly

equal influence over legislation yields his method of deciding

what the Constitution means. He can hardly hope to suc-

ceed. The framers of the original Constitution were remark-

ably unrepresentative of the people as a whole. They were

not chosen in any way sanctioned by prior national law, and

a majority of the population, including women, slaves, and

the poor, was excluded from the processes that selected them

and ratified the Constitution. Nor was democracy sufh-

ciently advanced, even by the time of the post-Civil War

amendments, to provide a democratic argument of fairness

for taking the legislators’ concrete opinions as good evidence

of public opinion at the time. Quite apart from these defects,

fairness cannot explain why people now should be governed

by the detailed political convictions of officials elected long

ago, when popular morality, economic circumstances, and

almost everything else was very different. How can fairness

argue that the Constitution permits individual states to
