CONVENTIONALISM

)

This account of the virtues of conventionalism falls 1n

neatly with the difference I described earlier between agree-

ment by convention and agreement in conviction, and also

with recent philosophical explanations of what a convention

is.'* A convention exists when people follow certain rules or

maxims for reasons that essentially include their expectation

that others will follow the same rules or maxims, and they

will follow rules for that reason when they believe that on

balance having some settled rule 1s more important than

having any particular rule. The convention that when a tele-

phone call is disconnected the person who made the call will

call back and the other party will wait follows that model

exactly. So do the conventions that make up rules of the

road. Our reason for driving on the right in America and on

the left in Britain is just our expectation that this 1s what

others will do, coupled with our further belief that it 1s more

important that there be a common rule than that it be

one rather than the other. In the rules-of-the-road case we

have no reason to think that cither rule 1s better. But even

if we did have some such reason —even if we thought it

slightly more natural for right-handed people, who form

the majority, to drive on the right-—our reasons for want-

ing everyone to drive on the same side would still be much

N8 (0l o ¢

In the contrasting situation, when there is no convention

but only agreement in conviction, everyone follows the same

rule but principally because he thinks it independently the

best rule to follow. We all think it wrong to inflict pain gra-

tuitously, but our reason for obeying this principle is not

that others do. It may be that if others did not follow the rule

we think best we would have, in that fact, a reason not to

follow it ourselves. Perhaps if no one else thought it wrong to

kill or steal we would be 1ll-advised to act on our present

scruples. But that would be a case of our having a competing

or countervailing reason that conflicted with our main posi-

tive reason for not killing or stealing. In the present circum-

stances, when most people have the same beliefs about
