THE COMMON LAW

Sy

must therefore study that principle by asking what decisions,

about who should bear what costs of accidents, a statesman

would make who accepted it as sovereign. He would need,

first, a definition of community wealth in order to decide

which decisions cost the community least. The economic

theory offers a rather special (and in many ways counterin-

tuitive) definition for this purpose: the wealth of a commu-

nity is the value of all i1ts goods and services, and the value of

something 1s the maximum amount In money or money’s

worth that anyone is willing and able to pay for 1t. If there 1s

a market price for something, its value is taken to be that

market price; if there is no proper market, its value 1s what

people would be willing and able to pay if there were. It fol-

lows that market transactions improve community wealth. It

also follows that when market transactions are impossible,

wealth i1s improved if people “simulate” markets by behav-

ing as if they had the rights and duties they would have if

negotiation were possible and were used.’

Now we can ask how a statesman who accepted the eco-

nomic principle and this definition of community wealth

would design rules of law fixing liability for accidents. Con-

sider a type of accident that used to occupy the courts. A

train speeding along tracks adjacent to a farm throws off

sparks that ignite and destroy crops planted near the tracks.

Must the farmer bear this loss? Or must the train company

compensate him? Which rule would an informed lawmaker,

anxious to improve total community wealth, lay down?

Imagine that the economic facts are as follows (call this Case

1). If the train company slows the train to the speed at which

it will not throw off sparks, the company’s profits will be

$1,000 less. If the train runs at the speed that is otherwise

most profitable to the company, the farmer will lose crops that

would earn him a profit of $1,100. In these circumstances the

community 1s richer on the whole (according to the stipu-

lated definition of community wealth) if the train slows.

Now suppose (Case 2) that the economic facts are reversed.

If the train slows, the company will lose profits of $1,100,
