LAW BEYOND LAW

2 30°

tegrity, and the values that support it, in this way. Each

proposes to show how law can develop in the direction of

justice while preserving integrity stage by stage. Each claims

that his vision could be secured by the community advanc-

ing through a series of steps, none of which would be revolu-

tionary, each of which would build on and take its place

within the structure already in place. We observed this pro-

cess from an external, historical point of view in our initial

survey of the development of law over time in Chapter g3,

and also in rejecting the claim in Chapter 4 that law is

mainly a matter of convention. I said that although the con-

tent of law will be very different in one period than in an-

other, nevertheless in a flourishing legal system even

important changes can be seen as flowing from the law in

place, enriching that law, changing its base, and so provok-

ing further change.

So utopian legal politics 1s, in that broad way, law still. Tts

philosophers offer large programs that can, if they take hold

in lawyers’ imagination, make 1its progress more deliberate

and reflective. T'hey are chain novelists with epics in mind,

imagining the work unfolding through volumes it may take

generations to write. In that sense each of their dreams is al-

ready latent in the present law; each dream might be law’s

future. But the dreams are competitive, the visions are differ-

ent, choices must be made—large choices by statesmen in

high judicial and legislative office, smaller choices by those

whose decisions are more circumscribed and immediate. No

coherent program may take hold for long enough among

enough people; we may be left in the hands of law’s cunning

after all, which is only another name for the ability of good

judges to impose whatever order they can, as Hercules had

to do in the chapters before this one, on a historically hap-

hazard process. But philosophers are part of law’s story even

then, even when they disagree and no vision wins a domi-

nant constituency for long, for their arguments even then re-

mind the profession of the pressure of law beyond law, that
