32

WHAT IS LAW?

well disagree. Perhaps no set of criteria for using the word

“cause’ fits ordinary practice exactly, and the question will

then be which set provides the overall best fit or best fits the

central cases of causation. A philosopher’s account of the

concept of causation must not only fit; moreover, but must

also be philosophically respectable and attractive in other

respects. It must not explain our use of causation in a ques-

tion-begging way, by using that very concept 1in its descrip-

tion of how we use it, and it must employ a sensible

ontology. We would not accept an account of the concept of

causation that appealed to causal gods resident in objects.

So, according to the view I am now describing, with the

concept of law. We all use the same factual criteria in fram-

ing, accepting, and rejecting statements about what the law

1s, but we are ignorant of what these criteria are. Philoso-

phers of law must elucidate them for us by a sensitive study

of how we speak. They may disagree among themselves, but

that alone casts no doubt on their common assumption,

which 1s that we do share some set of standards about how

“law’’ 1s to be used.

Philosophers who insist that lawyers all follow certain lin-

guistic criteria for judging propositions of law, perhaps un-

awares, have produced theories 1dentifying these criteria. I

shall call these theories collectively semantic theories of law,

but that name itself requires some elaboration. For a long

time philosophers of law packaged their products as defini-

tions of law. John Austin, for example, whose theory I shall

shortly describe, said he was explicating the “meaning” of

law. When philosophers of language developed more sophis-

ticated theories of meaning, legal philosophers became more

wary of definitions and said, instead, that they were describ-

ing the “use’” of legal concepts, by which they meant, in our

vocabulary, the circumstances in which propositions of law

are regarded by all competent lawyers as true or as false. This

was little more than a change in packaging, I think; in any

case I mean to include ‘“use” theories in the group of seman-
