96

JURISPRUDENCE REVISITED

by securing a kind of equality among citizens that makes

their community more genuine and improves 1ts moral justi-

fication for exercising the political power it does. Integrity’s

response to the third question—its account of the character

of consistency with past political decisions that law re-

quires—Iis correspondingly different from the answer given

by conventionalism. It argues that rights and responsibilities

flow from past decisions and so count as legal, not just when

they are explicit in these decisions but also when they follow

from the principles of personal and political morality the ex-

plicit decisions presuppose by way of justification.

These are only skeletal descriptions of the three general

conceptions of law we shall study. Their flesh and battle

dress will be presented soon enough.

Law and Morals

The main test of my suggestion, that arguments of legal the-

ory are best understood as arguments about how far and in

what way past political decisions provide a necessary condi-

tion for the use of public coercion, lies ahead, when we elab-

orate and compare the three conceptions of law just

described. We might now notice, however, how this sugges-

tion helps us to reformulate some classical jurisprudential

puzzles in a more illuminating way, to reveal substantive

1ssues that the classical texts often obscure. If our community

does indeed accept the abstract “conceptual’ idea that legal

rights are those flowing from past political decisions accord-

ing to the best interpretation of what that means, then this

helps to explain the complex relation between law and other

soclial phenomena. How 1s a community’s law different from

1its popular morality or traditional values? How is it different

from what true justice requires of any state, no matter what

its popular convictions or traditions? Our conceptual ac-

count provides this short answer to both these questions: it is

different from each because its content may depend on the

815 lo 8
