STATUTES

3572

If we followed the speaker’s meaning theory we would be

tempted to say: because we have reason to think that those

who adopted the statute did not intend murderers to inhertit.

But we can make sense of that claim only counterfactually,

and then we see that it is too strong. Does 1t become unclear

whether Nazis may inherit if we think the original authors of

the statute would not have wanted Nazis to 1nherit if they

had anticipated them? It is only because we think the case

for excluding murderers from a general statute of wills is a

strong one, sanctioned by principles elsewhere respected in

the law, that we find the statute unclear on that issue.

This is just as plainly true of the Endangered Species Act.

Our doubts whether that statute gave the secretary power to

halt projects well begun cannot be located in the ambiguity

or vagueness or abstraction of some phrase or word. No one

would claim that it is unclear whether the act applies to

dams at all, although dams are not explicitly mentioned.

Once again we think the statute unclear about projects al-

ready begun because it strikes many people as silly that so

much money should be wasted to save an unappealing and

scientifically unimportant species. But we must be careful

not to generalize this point in the wrong way: Hercules will

not regard a statute as unclear whenever its acontextual

meaning proposes a decision many people think wrong.

That is also much too strong a test: many people think the

whole Endangered Species Act wrong—tragically silly—

through and through. But no one would say that it is there-

fore unclear whether that act has any force at all, whether

the secretary has power to bar any project at all in any cir-

cumstance.

The description “unclear” is the result rather than the oc-

caston of Hercules’ method of interpreting statutory texts. We

will not call a statute unclear unless we think there are de-

cent arguments for each of two competing interpretations of

it.'"* This explains why no one—even if he thinks the Endan-

gered Species Act silly—is tempted to say that it 1s unclear

whether that act gives the secretary any power ever to
