INTEGRITY IN LAW

NN

the right criteria of fit. He also concedes that this opinion is

controversial: it is not shared by all of his fellow judges, some

of whom therefore think that some other interpretation, for

example (0), 1s superior. What complaints are his arguments

likely to attract? The first in the list I propose to consider

accuses Hercules of ignoring the actual law of emotional in-

jury and substituting his own views about what the law

should be.

How shall we understand this objection? We might take it

in two very different ways. It might mean that Hercules was

wrong to seek to justify his interpretation by appealing to

justice and fairness because 1t does not even survive the

proper threshold test of fit. We cannot assume, without re-

viewing the cases Hercules consulted, that this argument i1s

mistaken. Perhaps this time Hercules nodded; perhaps if he

had expanded the range of his study of precedents further he

would have discovered that only one interpretation did sur-

vive, and this discovery would then have settled the law, for

him, without engaging his opinions about the justice of re-

quiring compensation for accidents. But 1t is hardly plausi-

ble that even the strictest threshold test of fit will always

permit only one interpretation, so the objection, understood

this way, would not be a general objection to Hercules’

methods of adjudication but only a complaint that he had

misapplied his own methods in the particular case at hand.

We should therefore consider the second, more interesting

reading of the objection: this claims that a judge must never

rely on his personal convictions about fairness or justice the

way Hercules did in this instance. Suppose the critic says,

““The correct interpretation of a line of past decisions can al-

ways be discovered by morally neutral means, because the

correct interpretation is just a matter of discovering what

principles the judges who made these decisions intended to

lay down, and that is just a matter of historical fact.” Her-

cules will point out that this critic needs a political reason for

his dictum that interpretations must match the intentions of

past judges. That 1s an extreme form of the position we have
