104

JURISPRUDENCE REVISITED

law was not really law, or was law 1n a degenerate sense, or

was less than fully law. For he is not then using “law’ in that

sense; he 1s not making that sort of preinterpretive judgment

but a skeptical interpretive judgment that Nazi law lacked

features crucial to flourishing legal systems whose rules and

procedures do justify coercion. His judgment 1s now a special

kind of political judgment for which his language, if the

context makes this clear, 1s entirely appropriate. We do not

understand him fully, of course, unless we know which con-

ception of flourishing legal systems he favors. But we catch

his drift; we know the direction in which he will argue if he

00188 1B LorT

The Flexibility of Legal Language

Semantic theories like positivism crimp our language by

denying us the opportunity to use “law” in this flexible way,

depending on context or point. They insist that we must

choose, once and for all, between a “wide’ or preinterpretive

and a “narrow” or interpretive sense.® But this buys linguis-

tic tidiness at much too high a price. It is perfectly true that

the lawyer who says that Nazi law was no law might have

put the very same point in the different way favored by

positivists. He might have said that the Nazis had law, but

very bad law that lacked the features of a minimally decent

system. But that would have told us less of what he thinks,

revealed less of his overall jurisprudential position, because

it would not have signaled his view about the consequences

of lacking those features. On the other hand, on some occa-

sions this curtailment might be an advantage. It might be

unnecessary and even diversionary—productive of argument

irrelevant to his present purpose—for him to reveal more. In

that case the alternative “positivist” formulation of his point

would be preferable, and there is no reason why we should

artificially limit our language to make context-sensitive

choices of this kind impossible.

Context sensitivity 1s even more important when the
