§)

WHAT IS LAW?

the law once they have settled what it really 1s, and the pub-

lic debate is actually an example, though a heavily disguised

one, of theoretical disagreement about law.

In a trivial sense judges unquestionably “make new law”

every time they decide an important case. They announce a

rule or principle or qualification or elaboration—that segre-

gation 1s unconstitutional or that workmen cannot recover

for fellow-servant injuries, for example—that has never been

officially declared before. But they generally offer these

“new” statements of law as improved reports of what the

law, properly understood, already is. They claim, in other

words, that the new statement 1s required by a correct per-

ception of the true grounds of law even though this has not

been recognized previously, or has even been denied. So the

public debate about whether judges “discover” or “invent”

law 1s really about whether and when that ambitious claim

is true. If someone says the judges discovered the illegality of

school segregation, he believes segregation was in fact illegal

before the decision that said it was, even though no court

had said so before. If he says they invented that piece of law,

he means segregation was not illegal before, that the judges

changed the law in their decision. This debate would be

clear enough—and could easily be settled, at least case by

case—if everyone agreed about what law 1is, if there were no

theoretical disagreement about the grounds of law. Then it

would be easy to check whether the law before the Supreme

Court’s decision was indeed what that decision said 1t was.

But since lawyers and judges do disagree in the theoretical

way, the debate about whether judges make or find law is

part of that disagreement, though it contributes nothing to

resolving it because the real issue never rises to the surface.

THE PLAIN-FACT VIEW

Incredibly, our jurisprudence has no plausible theory of the-

oretical disagreement in law. Legal philosophers are of
