JURISPRUDENCE REVISITED

R~

bates about law. They make possible a standard form of ar-

gument: seeking to test or embarrass an interpretation by

confronting it with a paradigm it cannot explain. But para-

digms are no more true ‘“by definition” in law than they are

in courtesy or justice. Someone who denies that the traffic

code 1s law does not contradict himself, nor does he speak

thoughts no one can understand.” We understand him only

too well, and 1t is not inconceivable (though it is unlikely)

that he will be able to defend his view through a radical

reinterpretation of legal practice that 1s otherwise so appeal-

ing that it persuades us to abandon what was formerly a

cardinal paradigm. We cannot be sure his views are really

the nonsense we suppose except by hearing him out and dis-

covering whether we share his conviction. If we remain con-

vinced that his views are not only wrong but fundamentally

wrong, that his radical interpretation has missed some main

point any successful interpretation must recognize, it will be

enough for us to say that his views are absurd. We do not

need to add the more dramatic but mistaken charge en-

couraged by the semantic sting: that his error i1s verbal or

conceptual. We will think him very wrong, but not wrong in

some different way from other claims we reject but think less

preposterous.

A legal philosopher, then, begins his work enjoying a

fairly uncontroversial preinterpretive identification of the

domain of law, and with tentative paradigms to support his

argument and embarrass competitors in the familiar way.

Now the question arises whether he and his competitors

might also agree on what I called, in discussing courtesy and

Justice, a statement of the central concept of their institution

that will allow them to see their arguments as having a cer-

tain structure, as arguments over rival conceptions of that

concept. A conceptual statement of that sort would be useful

in several ways. Just as we understood the practice of cour-

tesy better at one stage in its career by finding general

agreement about the abstract proposition that courtesy is a
