THE COMMON LAW

SN

The remaining two conceptions on our list—Ilibertari-

anism and equality of resources—are not competitive with

private ambition but on the contrary perfectly compatible

with it. If people have natural rights in property, and gov-

ernment accurately identifies these rights and protects their

exercise, then the choices people make in using their prop-

erty will employ rather than threaten what government has

achieved. So, too, with equality of overall resources. If gov-

ernment succeeds 1n securing for each citizen a genuinely

equal share of resources to use as he wishes in making his life

successful according to his lights, then once again his choices

will give effect to rather than corrupt what government has

done. Though these two theories are very different from each

other, neither condemns the permissive attitude we began by

finding problematic in a community politically committed

to equality of concern. On the contrary, they take equality to

consist 1n establishing the appropriate conditions for that

attitude, and so they cannot be threatened or corrupted,

once successful in establishing these conditions, by people

acting in the way the attitude permits.

We reach this preliminary conclusion. Our familiar con-

victions, which require government to treat people as equals

in the scheme of property it designs but do not require peo-

ple to treat others as equals in using whatever the scheme

assigns them, assume a division of public and private respon-

sibility. They suppose we have a duty in politics that does

not carry over as any general duty of private life. We need a

conception of public duty that makes this division of respon-

sibility coherent, which explains why the duty sovereign in

one realm 1s much less demanding in the other. This argues,

if we take the division of responsibility to be important and

fundamental, for a compatible rather than a competitive

conception of equality as defining public responsibility, be-

cause compatible conceptions explain the division naturally

and systematically, while competitive theories can explain it

at best only artificially and improbably. "

That 1s an important conclusion generally for any broad
