108

JURISPRUDENCE REVISITED

except when some compelling overriding moral case can be

made against this? Or are these practices so wicked that they

should be seen as generating no rights at all, even weak ones?

We might want to use the language of law to enforce that

important distinction: to say in the former case that the

judge may have to disregard the law and in the latter that

there is no genuine law for him to disregard. But it is the

distinction that i1s important, not the language we choose to

enforce it, and other language is available to make the same

distinction if we prefer.’

Here, then, 1s another example of a jurisprudential chest-

nut that owes its survival, in the form in which it has been

debated in classes and treatises on legal philosophy, to a

misunderstanding of what legal theory should be. Semantic

theories of law take the various questions we have distin-

guished, all of which concern wicked or otherwise defective

instances of what 1s law 1n the preinterpretive sense, to be the

same question: the semantic question whether the linguistic

rules we share for applying “law” include or exclude such

legal systems. That 1s a fake question because we do not

share any rules of the kind it assumes. It is also a dangerous

question because it diverts us from the 1ssues of political mo-

rality, about the role and power of imperfect law and of offi-

cials who have undertaken a duty to enforce it, which are

our main interest. It disarms us by withdrawing the subtle

and context-sensitive distinctions the rich language of law

provides. The question of wicked legal systems is not a con-

ceptual question at all in the sense we have developed as ap-

propriate for interpretive enterprises. It is not one but many

questions, and they all arise, for legal theory, at the level

where conceptions compete.

GROUNDS AND FORCE OF LAW

I am defending this suggestion about how we might describe

our concept of law: for us, legal argument takes place on a
