STATUTES

SRR

halt any project. No decent interpretation of the act could

suggest 1t commands nothing, in spite of 1ts language and in

spite of the debates and committee reports, the presidential

statements and congressional announcements that launched

it. I do not mean that no one will say a statute 1s unclear un-

less he has already decided that the acontextual interpreta-

tion is the wrong one. He will concede that it 1s unclear if he

thinks the interpretive question is complex or debatable even

if in the end he thinks the acontextual interpretation best.

Nevertheless, the distinction between clear and unclear stat-

utes, so understood, need have no place in any formal state-

ment of Hercules’ theory of legislation. In particular, 1t

would not serve as I have used i1t in the discussion until this

section, to suggest a theoretical switching point, such that

interpretation would continue one way if the switch were

thrown and another way if it were not.

Nor does Hercules need a preanalytic or switchpoint dis-

tinction between clear and unclear statutes when the puta-

tive unclarity is indeed located in a particular word or

phrase. A statute limiting aggregate deposits in banks 1s not

unclear for us, but it might have been in a Keynesian com-

munity of pirate bands. Hercules will find a statute trouble-

some because of the ambiguity or vagueness or abstraction of

some word only when there is at least some doubt whether

the statute would be a better performance of the legislative

function read one way rather than another. When there is no

doubt, the statute is clear, not because Hercules has some

distinction, outside his general method, for distinguishing

clear from unclear uses of a word, but because the method he

always uses is then so easy to apply. It applies 1itself.

We have, in this discussion, another example of a problem

frequently encountered in this book, which we might now

call the easy-case problem. We have been attending mainly

to hard cases, when lawyers disagree whether some crucial

proposition of law is true or false. But questions of law are

sometimes very easy for lawyers and even for nonlawyers. It

“goes without saying” that the speed limit in Connecticut is
