INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

55

son, would 1n any event be inappropriate for the interpreta-

tion of a social practice like courtesy because it is essential to

the structure of such a practice that interpreting the practice

be treated as different from understanding what other par-

ticipants mean by the statements they make in its operation.

It follows that a social scientist must participate in a social

practice 1f he hopes to understand it, as distinguished from

understanding its members.

ART AND THE NATURE OF INTENTION

Is artistic interpretation inevitably a matter of discovering

some author’s intentions? Is discovering an author’s inten-

tions a factual process independent of the interpreter’s own

values? We start with the first of these questions, and with a

guarded claim. Artistic interpretation is not simply a matter

of retrieving an author’s intention if we understand “inten-

tion” to mean a conscious mental state, not if we take the

claim to mean that artistic interpretation always aims to

identify some particular conscious thought wielding its

baton 1n an author’s mind when he said or wrote or did what

he did. Intention is always a more complex and problemati-

cal matter than that. So we must restate our first question. If

someone wants to see interpretation in art as a matter of re-

trieving an author’s intention, what must he understand by

an intention? That revised first question will reshape the sec-

ond. Is there really so sharp a distinction as the objection

supposes between discovering an artist’s intention and find-

ing value in what he has done?

We must first notice Gadamer’s crucial point, that inter-

pretation must apply an intention.” The theater provides an

i1lluminating example. Someone who produces The Merchant

of Venice today must find a conception of Shylock that will

evoke for a contemporary audience the complex sense that

the figure of a Jew had for Shakespeare and his audience,

so his interpretation must in some way unite two periods
