THE CONSTITUTION

3N

gories he would not be Hercules after all. Is he too conserva-

tive? Or too liberal or progressive? You cannot yet say, be-

cause your judgment would depend on how closely your

convictions matched his across the wide spectrum of differ-

ent kinds of convictions an interpretation of constitutional

practice engages. I have not exposed enough of what his

convictions are, or how these would be deployed in due pro-

cess cases about criminal procedure, or free speech cases, or

cases about fair electoral districting and procedures, for you

to tell. Nor have I discussed, as a distinct problem in the

constitutional context, his convictions about the role of prec-

edent, about past decisions of the Supreme Court. You

will have some sense of this attitude from Chapter 7 and

from the fact that he was untroubled about overruling

Plessy 1n deciding Brown; but this is not the whole story be-

cause his attitude toward precedents would be more respect-

ful when he was asked to restrict the constitutional rights

they had enforced than when he was asked to reaffirm their

denials of such rights. So you must reserve your overall

political judgments for the careers of justices you know

more about.

But we have seen enough to know that one charge some

lawyers would urge against Hercules 1s unfair and, what is

even worse, obscurantist. Hercules 1s no usurping tyrant try-

ing to cheat the public of its democratic power. When he in-

tervenes 1n the process of government to declare some statute

or other act of government unconstitutional, he does this in

service of his most conscientious judgment about what de-

mocracy really 1s and what the Constitution, parent and

guardian of democracy, really means. You may disagree

with the few judgments I have reported in his name; if I told

you more of his career on Olympus you would probably dis-

agree with more. But if Hercules had renounced the respon-

sibility I have described, which includes the responsibility to

decide when he must rely on his own convictions about his

nation’s character, he would have been a traitor not a hero of

judicial restraint.
