WHAT IS LAW?

i

ter of how one chooses to use a word whose meaning is not

fixed at its boundaries. If “law” is really like “house,” why

should lawyers argue for so long about whether the law

really gives the secretary of the interior power to stop an al-

most finished dam to save a small fish, or whether the law

forbids racially segregated schools? How could they think

they had arguments for the essentially arbitrary decision to

use the word one way rather than another? How could they

think that important decisions about the use of state power

should turn on a quibble? It does not help to say that law-

yers and judges are able to deceive themselves because they

are actually arguing about a different issue, the political

issue whether the secretary should have that power or

whether states should be forbidden to segregate their schools.

We have already noticed that many of the arguments judges

make to support their controversial claims of law are not ap-

propriate to those directly political issues. So the new defense

of positivism is a more radical critique of professional prac-

tice than it might at first seem. The crossed-fingers defense

shows judges as well-meaning liars; the borderline-case de-

fense shows them as simpletons instead.

The borderline defense 1s worse than insulting, moreover,

because it ignores an important distinction between two

kinds of disagreements, the distinction between borderline

cases and testing or pivotal cases. People sometimes do speak

at cross-purposes in the way the borderline defense describes.

They agree about the correct tests for applying some word in

what they consider normal cases but use the word somewhat

differently in what they all recognize to be marginal cases,

like the case of a palace. Sometimes, however, they argue

about the appropriateness of some word or description be-

cause they disagree about the correct tests for using the word

or phrase on any occasion. We can see the difference by imag-

Ining two arguments among art critics about whether pho-

tography should be considered a form or branch of art. They

might agree about exactly the ways in which photography is

like and unlike activities they all recognize as “standard”
