PRAGMATISM AND PERSONIFICATION

P

Personification at Work

The 1dea of political integrity personifies the community in

the second way, as a working personification, because it as-

sumes that the community can adopt and express and be

faithful or unfaithful to principles of its own, distinct from

those of any of its officials or citizens as individuals. Of

course we must say what that means by describing how a

community adopts or betrays a principle, and this will be

part of constructing our conception of law as integrity. But

we should take this chance to notice how the deep personifi-

cation figures in ordinary ways of thought that are quite in-

dependent of law. Consider the phenomenon of communal

electoral responsibility. At the height of the Watergate scan-

dal bumper stickers appeared that read, “Don’t blame me;

I’'m from Massachusetts.” They did not say, “Don’t blame

me; I voted against Nixon,” and the difference is important.

People asked exoneration from a mistake made by a group to

which they belonged—the nation—not in individual inno-

cence but in membership of a different and more immediate

community that had acted well, a state that had not voted

for a dishonest president.

There are more important examples of group responsibil-

ity. Germans not alive when Nazis ruled their country feel

shame and a sense of obligation toward Jews; white Ameri-

cans who inherited nothing from slaveholders feel an inde-

terminate responsibility to blacks who never wore chains.

Some of us are puzzled by this phenomenon, because it

seems Incompatible with another idea we cherish, which is

that people must not be blamed for acts over which they had

no control, nor held responsible for unfair gains when they

have gained nothing themselves. So philosophers have

struggled to reconcile these conflicting ideas, by finding ways

in which all white Americans have profited from past dis-

crimination against blacks, for example. These arguments

ring hollow because they misunderstand the mode of respon-

sibility in question. They suppose that collective responsi-
