INTEGRITY

CRe

sponsibility we need the companion 1deas of integrity and

interpretation to explain. Friends have a responsibility to

treat one another as friends, and that means, put subjec-

tively, that each must act out of a conception of friendship

he is ready to recognize as vulnerable to an interpretive test,

as open to the objection that this is not a plausible account

of what friendship means in our culture. Friends or family or

neighbors need not agree in detail about the responsibilities

attached to these forms of organization. Associative obliga-

tions can be sustained among people who share a general

and diffuse sense of members’ special rights and responsibil-

ities from or toward one another, a sense of what sort and

level of sacrifice one may be expected to make for another. I

may think friendship, properly understood, requires that I

break promises to others to help a friend in need, and I will

not refuse to do this for a friend just because he does not

share this conviction and would not do it for me. But I will

count him a friend and feel this obligation only if I believe

he has roughly the same concern for me as I thereby show for

him, that he would make important sacrifices for me of some

other sort.

Nevertheless, the members of a group must by and large

hold certain attitudes about the responsibilities they owe one

another 1f these responsibilities are to count as genuine fra-

ternal obligations. First, they must regard the group’s obli-

gations as special, holding distinctly within the group, rather

than as general duties its members owe equally to persons

outside 1t. Second, they must accept that these responsibil-

1ities are personal: that they run directly from each member to

each other member, not just to the group as a whole in some

collective sense. My brother or my colleague may think he

has responsibilities to the reputation of the family or the uni-

versity he best acquits by concentrating on his own career

and thus denying me help when I need it or company when I

want it. He may be right about the best use of his time over-

all from the standpoint of the general good of these partic-

ular communities.

But his conduct does not form the
