STATUTES

324

would be paradoxical if generally accepted. If it 1s under-

stood that judges will enforce an unclear statute in whatever

way most congressmen as a matter of psychological fact pre-

dict 1t will be enforced, then a judge must decide what Smith

predicted he would do, which means what she predicted he

would think she had predicted he would do, and so forth in-

definitely. That sets a puzzle for games theory, not a practi-

cal technique for understanding statutes. Legislators can

usefully predict how judges will interpret their statutes

only if they think judges are using some method of statu-

tory interpretation that is independent of legislators’ pre-

dictions.

Now Hermes is in some difhiculty. He began by accepting

that he should defer to legislative intention, by discovering,

combining, and enforcing the mental states of particular

people in the past. But he cannot identify these mental states

as consisting either in the hopes or in the expectations of

these people when hopes and expectations come apart. Nor

even (as he will now see) when they come together, because

the various arguments that led him to reject either the hopes

or the expectations technique alone hold just as firmly

against the two in combination. Smith might hope that the

statute would be construed narrowly, because this would

benefit her corporate friends and contributors, and predict

that 1t would be because she believes anticonservationist

judges will decide the first cases. It seems wrong to count her

opinions as decisive even when they combine her hopes and

predictions in that way. Hermes will shortly find an escape

from this apparent dilemma in a new idea: that the speaker’s

meaning theory of statutory interpretation requires taking

Smith’s intentions to lie in her convictions, that is, her beliefs

about what justice or sound policy would require, which

may, of course, be different from either her hopes or her ex-

pectations. When Hermes follows this lead he will develop a

rather different method for reading statutes from those he

has so far considered.
