INTEGRITY

IN LAW

240

sons past judges offered for their decisions enforcing these

rights, or you might not share his respect for what I shall call

“local priority” in common-law decisions. If you reject these

discrete views because you think them poor constructive in-

terpretations of legal practice, however, you have not re-

jected law as integrity but rather have joined its enterprise.

Six Interpretations

Hercules must decide McLoughlin. Both sides in that case

cited precedents; each argued that a decision in its favor

would count as going on as before, as continuing the story

begun by the judges who decided those precedent cases.

Hercules must form his own view about that i1ssue. Just as a

chain novelist must find, if he can, some coherent view of

character and theme such that a hypothetical single author

with that view could have written at least the bulk of the

novel so far, Hercules must find, if he can, some coherent

theory about legal rights to compensation for emotional in-

jury such that a single political official with that theory

could have reached most of the results the precedents report.

He 1s a careful judge, a judge of method. He begins by

setting out various candidates for the best interpretation of

the precedent cases even before he reads them. Suppose he

makes the following short list: (1) No one has a moral right

to compensation except for physical injury. (2) People have a

moral right to compensation for emotional injury suffered at

the scene of an accident against anyone whose carelessness

caused the accident but have no right to compensation for

emotional injury suffered later. (3) People should recover

compensation for emotional injury when a practice of re-

quiring compensation 1n their circumstances would diminish

the overall costs of accidents or otherwise make the commu-

nity richer in the long run. (4) People have a moral right to

compensation for any injury, emotional or physical, that is

the direct consequence of careless conduct, no matter how

unlikely or unforeseeable it is that that conduct would result
