STATUTES

325

Counterfactual Mental States

| want to assume that he has not yet had this idea, however,

and 1s still wrestling with hopes and expectations. So far he

has made the quite unreasonable assumption that Smith ac-

tually had some pertinent hope or had actually made some

prediction when she cast her vote. He realizes this may not

he so, that she may not have thought about unfinished dams

at all; any more than the legislators who voted for the statute

HERIIR thought about murderers like Elmer. How shall

| lcrmes calculate her intention then? Many lawyers say that

in these circumstances judges should ask a counterfactual

(question of this form: what would Smith have intended if

she had thought of the problem? The best answer to a coun-

terfactual question may be that there 1s no answer. If Smith

never thought about the snail darter, then it may be neither

(rue nor false that she would have wanted the snail darter

saved if she had thought about it.” But counterfactual ques-

tions do have good answers sometimes. We can easily imag-

e evidence that if she had thought of the problem she

would have wanted the fish saved or, on the contrary, the

dam finished and opened. Or evidence that she would have

cxpected the courts to protect the fish or, on the contrary,

cxpected them to allow the dam to open. But since Hermes

has already decided that Smith’s intention is not a matter of

her actual hopes or expectations, he will not think 1t can be a

matter of her hypothetical, counterfactual hopes or expecta-

tions either. He might be tempted to construe the pertinent

counterfactual question, therefore, as this one: if an amend-

ment had been introduced, specifying that the secretary did

not have power to halt the TVA dam once that dam had

heen almost completed, would Smith have voted for or

against that amendment? It was, after all, a regrettable acci-

dent that no one thought of the problem and introduced

such an amendment, and i1t seems sensible to ask what would

have happened had that accident not occurred.
