NOTES TO PAGE g4

Y

3. Some legal theories that are not, on the surface, claims about

why law justifies state coercion nevertheless depend on or presup-

pose such claims. In Chapter 4 I try to show how familiar forms of

legal positivism become more interesting when they are under-

stood not as semantic theories but as interpretations resting on the

claim that collective force is justified only when it conforms to

conventional understandings. I have elsewhere tried to show how

Hart’s version of positivism, in particular, grows out of his convic-

tion that special legal conventions, broadly accepted throughout

the community, cure defects in the organization of political coer-

cion that would be i1nevitable without these conventions. See “A

Reply to Critics” in Ronald Dworkin and Contemporary Jurisprudence

(Marshall Cohen ed., New York and London, 1984). Joseph Raz

has recently developed a version of positivism, however, that ex-

plicitly denies any reliance on political convictions of any sort.

(See Raz, “Authority, L.Law and Morality,” in 68 The Monist 295

[July 1985].) He insists that any adequate account of the proper

grounds of law must e¢xplain how law can serve as an authority,

and he defines authority in such a way that people cannot accept

law as an authority unless their tests for law wholly exclude

judgments of political morality. He believes what he calls the

“sources” thesis, that the grounds of law must be exclusively

factual, follows from that assumption and definition. He is right

that any successful interpretation of our legal practice must recog-

nize and justify the common assumption that law can compete

with morality and wisdom and, for those who accept law’s au-

thority, override these other virtues in their final decision about

what they should do. (I do not mean that this assumption about

the authority of law 1s uncontroversial; legal pragmatism denies it,

as we shall see in Chapter 5.) But that condition can be met by a

theory that makes judgments of morality and wisdom part of the

grounds of law rather than law’s only grounds. So it can be met

by conceptions of law that reject the “sources” thesis, conceptions

hike those I described in Chapter 1, with reluctance, as moderate

‘natural law’ theories. Raz thinks law cannot be authoritative

unless those who accept it never use their own convictions to decide

what it requires, even in this partial way. But why must law be

blind authority rather than authoritative in the more relaxed way

other conceptions assume? Some explanation is needed, and it will

not do to fall back on linguistic rules, to say that this is just what
