LAW BEYOND LAW

R

dents and lawyers will be able to test the illuminating power

of law as integrity against a much wider and more varied ex-

perience of law at work.

Have I said what law 1s? The best reply 1s: up to a point. I

have not devised an algorithm for the courtroom. No elec-

tronic magician could design from my arguments a com-

puter program that would supply a verdict everyone would

accept once the facts of the case and the text of all past stat-

utes and judicial decisions were put at the computer’s dis-

posal. But I have not drawn the conclusion many readers

think sensible. I have not said that there is never one right

way, only different ways, to decide a hard case. On the con-

trary, I said that this apparently worldly and sophisticated

conclusion 1is either a serious philosophical mistake, if we

read it as a piece of external skepticism, or itself a conten-

tious political position resting on dubious political convic-

tions if we treat it, as I am disposed to do, as an adventure in

global internal skepticism.

I described the nested interpretive questions a judge

should put to himself and also the answers I now believe he

should give to the more abstract and basic of these. I carried

the process further in some cases, into the capillaries as well

as the arteries of decision, but only as example and not in

more detaill than was needed to illustrate the character of the

decisions judges must make. Our main concern has been to

identify the branching points of legal argument, the points

where opinion divides in the way law as integrity promises.

For every route Hercules took from that general conception

to a particular verdict, another lawyer or judge who began

in the same conception would find a different route and end

in a different place, as several of the judges in our sample

cases did. He would end differently because he would take

leave of Hercules, following his own lights, at some branch-

Ing point sooner or later in the argument.

The question how far I have succeeded 1n showing what

law 1s 1s therefore a distinct question for each reader. He

must ask how far he would follow me along the tree of argu-
