INTEGRITY

>3

dards other than the legal standards of the day, other and

more powerful aspects of political morality might outweigh

this requirement in particular and unusual circumstances.

Perhaps the law of the United States, properly interpreted in

deference to integrity, did include the Fugitive Slave Act en-

acted by Congress before the Civil War.?” If a judge’s own

sense of justice condemned that act as deeply immoral be-

cause it required citizens to help send escaped slaves back to

their masters, he would have to consider whether he should

actually enforce it on the demand of a slave owner, or

whether he should lie and say that this was not the law after

all, or whether he should resign. The principle of integrity in

adjudication, therefore, does not necessarily have the last

word about how the coercive power of the state should be

used. But it does have the first word, and normally there is

nothing to add to what it says.

Integrity and Consistency

Is integrity only consistency (deciding like cases alike) under

a prouder name? That depends on what we mean by consis-

tency or like cases. If a political institution is consistent only

when 1t repeats its own past decisions most closely or pre-

cisely in point, then integrity is not consistency; it 1s some-

thing both more and less. Integrity demands that the public

standards of the community be both made and seen, so far

as this is possible, to express a single, coherent scheme of jus-

tice and fairness in the right relation. An institution that ac-

cepts that ideal will sometimes, for that reason, depart

from a narrow line of past decisions in search of fidelity to

principles conceived as more fundamental to the scheme

as a whole.

The plainest examples come from adjudication, and I

choose one that 1llustrates only a partial victory for integrity

so far. For some time British judges declared that although

members of other professions were liable for damage caused

by their carelessness, barristers were immune from such
