93

JURISPRUDENCE REVISITED

sion. The concept permits, that 1s, conceptions reminiscent

of some of the theories I called natural law theories in Chap-

ter 1, though under our new picture these are not semantic

theories but general interpretations of legal practice. It also

permits opposing conceptions that reject this suggested in-

fluence of justice over law and so remind us of legal positiv-

ism. And it also permits skeptical conceptions like legal

pragmatism, which insist that law, conceived as a matter of

rights over what forward-looking justice would otherwise

demand, 1s empty.

So the assumption that the most general point of law, if it

has one at all, is to establish a justifying connection between

past political decisions and present coercion shows the old

debate about law and morals in a new light. In jurispru-

dence texts that debate is pictured as a contest between two

semantic theories: positivism, which 1nsists that law and

morals are made wholly distinct by semantic rules everyone

b

accepts for using “law,

and natural law, which 1nsists, on

the contrary, that they are united by these semantic rules. In

fact the old debate makes sense only if it is understood as a

contest between different political theories, a contest about

how far that assumed point of law requires or permits citi-

zens’ and officials’ views about justice to figure in their opin-

ions about what legal rights have been created by past

political decisions. The argument 1s not conceptual in our

sense at all, but part of the interpretive debate among rival

conceptions of law.

Anatomy of a Conception

The assumed connection between law and coercion 1s also a

useful guide to the likely structure or anatomy of nonskepti-

cal conceptions of law like conventionalism and law as integ-

rity. Each such conception will deploy, as its organizing

idea, some account of how the legal practices that define

past political decisions contribute to the justification of

collective coercive force. We know already which practices
