THE CONSTITUTION

el

When Hercules considers each of these theories about the

force of the Fourteenth Amendment’s requirement of equal

protection, he will use the distinction we used 1n Chapter 8.

He will distinguish between the academic and the practical

elaboration of each theory; he will ask not only how attrac-

tive each theory is in the abstract, as it would be elaborated

and applied by a sophisticated political philosopher, but

how well each one could be put into practice in a commu-

nity like his, as a constitutional standard courts could use ef-

fectively in deciding what legislation it disqualifies. I took

the requirements of practical elaboration into account in de-

scribing the first theory. It sets out certain “suspect” classifi-

cations which, when used in legislation, raise a presumption

that the interests of some group have not been taken into ac-

count 1n the proper way. But that presumption can be re-

butted, and it is rebutted by showing that the classification

does in fact give equal effect to all the preferences displayed

in the community, with no distinction as to the character or

source of these preferences.

The second theory, of banned categories, needs no distinct

practical elaboration, because its academic elaboration is al-

ready practical enough. It sets out particular categories and

insists that the constitutional right has been violated when-

ever the law makes distinctions among groups of citizens

using any of those categories. The second theory insists (in

the odd maxim often used to express it) that the Constitu-

tion Is color-blind and blind also to certain other listed prop-

erties that distinguish difterent groups. The third theory, of

banned sources, does need a distinct practical elaboration,

because its fundamental principle would be extremely difh-

cult for judges and other officials to apply directly case by

case. That principle prohibits legislation that could be justi-

fied only by counting, within the overall calculation deter-

mining where the general interest lies, preferences directly or

indirectly arising from prejudice. Even in theory it will often

be difficult to decide which preferences these are, because

people’s desires usually have complex and sometimes even
