CONVENTIONALISM

Xe!

underdeveloped form of law as integrity. It rejects the di-

vorce between law and politics that a conventionalist theory

with the motives I described tries to secure. A so-called soft-

conventionalist judge 1s not barred by this spurious brand of

conventionalism from engaging his own controversial moral

and political convictions in his decision. On the contrary, it

is precisely these convictions—about the best techniques for

reading a statute, about the proper place of statutes in a

constitutional structure, about the connection between a

constitution and the idea of law, about the soundest concep-

tion of justice—that will determine for him which elabora-

tion of abstract convention 1s best and therefore what the

L~

law requires.

Nothing in soft conventionalism guarantees, or even pro-

motes, the ideal of protected expectations, that past deci-

sions will be relied on to justify collective force only so far as

their authority and their terms are made uncontroversial by

widely accepted conventions. Nor does 1t protect that ideal

in the further ways I described, by 1dentifying as special

those cases in which there i1s no explicit past decision to fol-

low. For under soft conventionalism our sample cases are all

cases governed by law, and soft conventionalist judges de-

ciding these cases would have no reason to defer to their be-

liefs about what the present legislature would do or what the

will of the people is. On the contrary, they would have the

normal reason for disregarding any belief or information on

that score: that the law i1s the law and must be followed, no

matter how unpopular it might be in the present climate of

political opinion.

If conventionalism is to provide a distinct and muscular

conception of law, therefore, with even remote connections

to the family of popular attitudes we took it to express, then

it must be strict, not soft, conventionalism. We must accept

that the positive part of conventionalism—that judges must

respect the explicit extension of legal conventions—cannot

offer any usetul advice to judges in hard cases. These will in-

evitably be cases in which the explicit extension of the vari-
