PRAGMATISM AND PERSONIFICATION

K

DOES PRAGMATISM FIT?

RSy (N Ion

We should begin our test of pragmatism by pursuing the

question raised a moment ago. Do judges and lawyers recog-

nize legal rights mainly in circumstances that could be ex-

plained on pragmatist grounds? We must ask what strategy

a self-conscious and sophisticated pragmatist judge would

adopt in pretending that people had legal rights. He would

try to find the right balance between the predictability nec-

essary to protect the valuable institutions of legislation and

precedent and the flexibility necessary for himself and other

judges to improve the law through what they do in court.

Any general strategy for achieving this would be tentative; a

pragmatist judge would stand ready to revise his practice by

enlarging or contracting the scope of what he counts as legal

rights as experience improved the intricate calculations on

which any such strategy would depend.

He would undoubtedly, for the reasons canvassed, include

in his list of as-if legal rights the rights that clear legislation

purports to create. But he would not necessarily decide to

honor all rights provided in all statutes. He might well ex-

clude old statutes like those forbidding contraception, how-

ever clear and precise these might be, if they are only the

relics of long-abandoned policies, 1f they represent no con-

temporary political decision and therefore serve no useful

role in coordinating social behavior now.' He would in gen-

eral recognize as as-if rights those declared by other judges in

past decisions, but again he would not include all such deci-

sions. He would think judges should retain the power to

overrule past judicial decisions, if they were especially ill-ad-

vised, even when they were clear enough to provide crisp

guidance to litigants. So a sound as-if strategy would pro-

duce an attenuated doctrine of respect for statutes and prec-

edents.

But a sophisticated pragmatist might nevertheless be

tempted, for reasons he would believe fully respectable, to
