118

CONVENTIONALISM

ventionalism also serves the ideal of protected expectations.

But a reasonable case can be made that it does. The negative

claim insists that a judge may not appeal to the law’s war-

rant for his decision when he cannot show that conventions

force him to do what he does, because the i1deal 1s corrupted

by any suggestion that past political decisions can yield

rights and duties other than those dictated by convention.

Suppose it 1s clear that convention does not dictate an an-

swer either way in McLoughlin: convention requires that prec-

edents be followed, but only so far as a new case 1s like the

precedents in relevant facts, and no past case has decided

whether damages must be awarded for emotional injury

away from the accident’s scene. Suppose a judge then an-

nounces, in the style of law as integrity, that the precedents

do establish a right to damages because that reading of the

precedents makes them in retrospect morally sounder. That

is dangerous from the point of view of the popular ideal.

Once it is accepted that principles can be part of the law for

reasons not reflecting convention but just because they are

morally appealing, then a door is opened for the more

threatening idea that some principles are part of the law be-

cause of their moral appeal, even though they contradict

what convention has endorsed.

Conventionalism protects the authority of convention by

insisting that conventional practices establish the end as well

as the beginning of the past’s power over the present. It in-

sists that the past yields no rights tenable in court, except as

these are made uncontroversial by what everyone knows and

expects. If convention is silent there is no law, and the force

of that negative claim is exactly that judges should not then

pretend that their decisions flow in some other way from

what has already been decided. We should protect conven-

tion in that way, according to conventionalism, even if we

think judges should sometimes, in dramatic circumstances,

flout convention. Suppose the conventions of American

practice make past decisions of the Supreme Court part of

the law. These conventions establish that the Court’s deci-
