CONVENTIONALISM

ITH

islatures in the manner prescribed by the Constitution, and

in England that decisions by the House of Lords are binding

on the lower courts. Conventionalism holds that legal prac-

tice, properly understood, is a matter of respecting and en-

forcing these conventions, of treating their upshot, and

nothing else, as law. If Elmer has a right to the inheritance

according to a convention of this sort—if he has a right to it

according to social conventions about who has the power to

legislate and how that power is to be exercised and how

doubts created by the language are to be settled—then he

has a legal right to it, but not otherwise.

Second, conventionalism corrects the popular layman’s

view that there 1s always law to enforce. Law by convention

1s never complete, because new issues constantly arise that

have not been settled one way or the other by whatever in-

stitutions have conventional authority to decide them.'! So

conventionalists add this proviso to their account of legal

practice. “Judges must decide such novel cases as best they

can, but by hypothesis no party has any right to win flowing

from past collective decisions --no party has a legal right to

win—because the only rights of that character are those es-

tablished by convention. So the decision a judge must make

in hard cases is discretionary in this strong sense: 1t is left

open by the correct understanding of past decisions. A judge

must find some other kind of justification beyond law’s war-

rant, beyond any requirement of consistency with decisions

made in the past, to support what he then does. (This might

lie in abstract justice, or in the general interest, or in some

other forward-looking justification.) Of course convention

may convert novel decisions into legal rights for the future.

Our own conventions about precedent convert any decision

the highest court makes about Elmer, for example, into law

for future murdering heirs. In this way the system of rules

sanctioned by convention grows steadily in our legal prac-

Lo T

There are obvious resemblances between conventional-

ism and the positivist semantic theories I discussed in Chap-
