%6

PRAGMATISM AND PERSONIFICATION

problematical. Does the as-if strategy of pragmatism allow a

better explanation? Or does it also stumble before this hur-

e il

A pragmatist judge has no direct reason for worrying, as

the judges in Elmer’s case worried, about the intentions of

the legislators who first adopted the New York statute of

wills. He thinks the only good reason for enforcing statutes

whose wisdom he doubts 1s to protect the legislature’s ability

to coordinate social behavior. He therefore sees no point in

trying to enforce statutory instructions that are so unclear

that any reliance on them would be speculative, so vague

that they cannot aid coordination 1n any case. In particular

he sees no point in trying to discover the intentions of legisla-

tors long dead, intentions that must anyway be obscure or

controversial and unavailable to the general public. He

thinks it plainly better to insist that when a statute is deeply

unclear it cannot be the source of as-if legal rights at all, that

the right rule is whichever rule is best for the future. So the

pragmatist judge will behave like Earl in Elmer’s case only if

he has an indirect, noble-lie reason for pretending that legis-

lative intentions are relevant. It is most unlikely that he will

see any reason of that kind. For 1t hardly damages the con-

temporary legislature’s ability to work its will if judges de-

cline to speculate about how to read cloudy rules from the

dead past or what the intentions of people very different

from contemporary legislators would have been if they had

thought about a problem they actually 1gnored.

A pragmatist judge will find room in his working theory of

as-1f legal rights for some doctrine of precedent. People can

plan their affairs with more confidence 1if they have more

guidance about when and how the state will intervene, and

the community will therefore be better off if it can reason-

ably look to past judicial decisions to predict future ones.

But once again this justification for respecting precedent

does not hold when the scope of a past decision is unclear

and controversial. So a pragmatist has no direct reason to

strain to discover the ‘“true” ground of that decision by at-
