JURISPRUDENCE REVISITED

N

these are. Legislation—the practice of recognizing as law the

explicit decisions of special bodies widely assumed to have

that power—is a prominent part of our legal landscape, and

no conception can ignore it. So every competent conception

must include some answer to the question why, as a matter

of political morality, past decisions of legislative institutions

should have the justifying power the conception awards

them. Precedent also has a prominent place 1n our practices:

past decisions of courts count as sources of legal rights. So

any competent conception must provide some answer to the

question why a past judicial decision should 1n itself provide

a reason for a similar use of state power by different officials

later.

No conception need justify every feature of the political

practices 1t offers to interpret: like any interpretation, 1t can

condemn some of 1ts data as a mistake, as inconsistent with

the justification 1t offers for the rest, and perhaps propose

that this mistake be abandoned in what I called, in Chap-

ter 2, 1ts postinterpretive stage. A conception of law might

try to show, for example, that the explanation of legislation

that provides the best justification of that institution re-

quires, contrary to now-prevailing practice, that old and

out-of-date statutes be treated as no longer law. Conceptions

of law will be controversial just because they will differ in

this way in their postinterpretive accounts of legal practice,

in their opinions, that is, about the right way to expand or

extend the practice in areas presently disputed or unculti-

vated. These controversial postinterpretive claims are the

cutting edge of a conception of law, and that is why hard

cases like our sample cases provide the best theater for dis-

playing their power.

Here are some of the issues, controversial in our own prac-

tice, that a developed conception of law must take up in its

postinterpretive stage. Given the general, foundational in-

terpretation the conception offers of the main lines of legisla-

tion and precedent, what should be done when the text of a

statute 1s unclear? Which is decisive: the “plain” or “literal”
