JURISPRUDENCE REVISITED

105

question in play is sharper, more specialized, more practical

than simply one of general classification or critique of a for-

eign and very different legal system. Suppose the question

somehow arises how a judge in the foreign system we disap-

prove of—call him Judge Siegfried—should decide some

hard case arising there. The focus has changed because this

question requires, not merely a general comparison of the

foreign system with our own, but an independent interpre-

tation of that system in some detail. We must now put our-

selves 1n Siegfried’s shoes; if we despise the system in which

he adjudicates, our interpretation for him might well be a

fully skeptical one. We might decide that the interpretive

attitude is wholly inappropriate there, that the practice, in

the shape i1t has reached, can never provide any justification

at all, even a weak one, for state coercion. Then we will think

that in every case Siegfried should simply i1gnore legislation

and precedent altogether, if he can get away with it, or oth-

erwise do the best he can to limit injustice through whatever

means are available to him. Once again we might, but need

not, put that opinion in the dramatic language that denies

there is any law in Siegfried’s nation at all. Whichever lan-

guage we choose, the important point 1s the point of political

morality: that nothing in the mere fact that his nation has

law in the preinterpretive sense provides any litigant with

any right to win what he seeks in its courts.

Suppose, however, that on further reflection this is not ex-

actly our view. For we find something in the history of the

legal practices of Siegfried’s community that we think justi-

fies some claims of legal right by some litigants in some cases

before him, even though we believe these practices as a

whole to be so defective that no general supportive interpre-

tation 1s possible. Suppose the case in question 1s an ordinary

contract case that seems to involve no issue of racial or politi-

cal discrimination or otherwise any piece of tyranny. We

might think the plaintiff in this case has a right to win just

because the statutes and precedents of his jurisdiction grant

him that right, a right he would not have had otherwise. Our
