Rl

NOTES TO PAGES 183-185

ciples pull in opposite directions on that issue. Our model de-

mands, as we shall see, that the resolution of this conflict itself be

principled. A scheme of inheritance taxes might recognize both

principles in a certain relation by setting rates of tax that are less

than confiscatory. But we insist that whatever relative weighting

of the two principles the solution assumes must flow throughout

the scheme, and that other decisions, on other matters that involve

the same two principles, respect that weighting as well. In any case

this kind of conflict 1s different from the contradiction contained

in the checkerboard statutes described in the text. For in these

statutes one principle of justice is not outweighed or qualified by

another in some way that expresses a ranking of the two. Only a

single principle is involved; it 1s affirmed for one group and denied

for another, and this is what our sense of propriety denounces.

8. See note 7. We can easily imagine other examples of com-

promises we would accept as not being violations of integrity, be-

cause they reflect principles of justice we recognize though we do

not ourselves endorse them. People who oppose capital punish-

ment 1n principle will accept a reduction in the list of crimes pun-

ished by death, provided those who are executed are morally more

culpable or in some other way distinguishable according to stan-

dards generally respected in the criminal law; they will accept this

much more readily than, for example, a system that allows some

criminals convicted of a capital offense to escape death by draw-

Ing straws.

9. We cannot explain these constitutional compromises, as we

explain the inheritance tax decision described in note 7, by argu-

ing that the compromises give each of two independent and com-

peting principles the proper weight. No second-order argument of

principle can justify prohibiting Congress to restrict slavery before

but not after a particular year. Madison said that that arrange-

ment was “more dishonorable to the national character than say-

ing nothing about it in the Constitution.” (2 Farrand’s Debates

415-416). I owe this reference to William Nelson. For an example

of a Supreme Court decision that seems to offend integrity, see

Mabher v. Roe, g7 S.Ct. 2376, and Laurence Tribe, American Constitu-

tional Law 973 n. 77 (Mineola, N.Y., 1978).

10. See generally Tribe, supra n. g, secs. 16-6-16-7. William

Nelson, in The Fourteenth Amendment: From Political Principle to [udi-

ctal Doctrine chaps. 8 and g (forthcoming), explores the commit-
