THE CONSTITUTION

YA

Court’s decisions most generally regretted over the course of

constitutional history, we would find more in which its mis-

take lay in failing to intervene when, as we now think, con-

stitutional

2ot sTai o] (e

of justice

required

intervention.

Americans would be prouder of their political record if it did

not include, for example, Plessy or Korematsu. ' In both these

cases a decision of a majoritarian legislature was seriously

unjust and also, as most lawyers now believe, unconstitu-

tional; we regret that the Supreme Court did not intervene

for justice in the Constitution’s name.

So if there 1s a good political case for passivism, it must be

found in the second line of argument we distinguished, in

the idea of political fairness. But a passivist who appeals to

fairness must defend two dubious claims. He must argue,

first, that fairness, properly understood, demands that the

majority of voters in any legislative jurisdiction be con-

strained, in what they can do to a minority, only by princi-

ples they themselves endorse or at least accept at the

moment when the constraint 1s urged against them. He must

argue, second, that political fairness so understood 1s of

paramount importance in the constitutional context, that it

must steadily be preferred to justice when the two are

thought to conflict. These two claims, taken together, fit the

general structure of the Constitution even worse than passi-

vism’s conclusions about deference fit constitutional prac-

tice,

because

they cannot

explain clear and precise

constraints like the Constitution’s procedural requirements

for criminal tnals. If the two claims were sound, constraints

would be unnecessary when the majority accepted them as

proper, and unfair when it did not. Any competent interpre-

tation of the Constitution as a whole must therefore recog-

nize, contrary to the passivist’s two claims, that some

constitutional rights are designed exactly to prevent majori-

ties from following their own convictions about what justice

requires. The Constitution insists that fairness, understood

as the passivist must understand 1t, must yield to certain

fundamental rights. But once the passivist’s view of the
