INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

o}

pursue one set of themes or visions or purposes, one “point,”

rather than another. This structure is required of an inter-

pretation even when the material to be interpreted is a social

practice, even when there is no historical author whose his-

torical mind can be plumbed. An interpretation of courtesy,

in our imaginary history, will wear an intentional air even

though the intention cannot belong to anyone in particular

or even people in general. This structural requirement, taken

to be independent of any further requirement tying inter-

pretation to a particular author’s intention, provides an ex-

citing challenge, which will occupy us later, mainly in

Chapter 6. What could be the point of insisting on the for-

mal structure of purpose, in the way we explain texts or legal

institutions, beyond the goal of retrieving some actual histor-

ical intention?

Intention and the Value of Art

I said, just now, that the author’s-intention method of artis-

tic interpretation is disputed even in its most plausible form.

Many critics argue that literary interpretation should be

sensitive to aspects of literature—the emotional effects it has

on readers or the way its language escapes any reduction to

one particular set of meanings or the possibility it creates

for dialogue between artist and audience, for example—

whether or not these are part of its author’s intention even in

the complex sense we have been noticing. And even those

who still insist that the artist’s intention must be decisive of

what the “real” work is like disagree about how that inten-

tion should be reconstructed. These various disagreements

about intention and art are important for us not because we

should take sides—that i1s not necessary here—but because

we should try to understand the character of the argument,

what the disagreements are really about.

Here is one answer to that question. Works of art present

themselves to us as having, or at least as claiming, value of

the particular kind we call aesthetic: that mode of presenta-
