388

THE CONSTITUTION

He needs to develop his working theory of constitutional

adjudication only 1n enough detail to decide Brown, so he

would not have to choose between banned categories and

banned sources, the second and third theories on his list.

Both condemn ofhcially sponsored racial segregation in

schools. Both fit the past pattern of Court decisions and the

general structure of the Constitution well enough to be eligi-

ble. Both were consistent, in 1954, with ethical attitudes that

were widespread in the community; neither theory fit these

attitudes noticeably better than the other, because the differ-

ence between them appears only at a level of analysis popu-

lar opinion had not yet been forced to reach. America’s

growing sense that racial segregation was wrong in principle,

because 1t was incompatible with decency to treat one race

as inherently inferior to another, can be supported either on

grounds of banned sources, that some preferences must be

disregarded in any acceptable calculation of what makes the

community better off on the whole, or on grounds of banned

categories, that some properties, including race, must never

be made the basis of legal distinction.

Hercules is therefore ready to decide, for the plaintiffs, that

state-imposed racial segregation in education is unconstitu-

tional. He knows that the congressmen who proposed the

Fourteenth Amendment had a different view, which they

declared in official legislative history. But for reasons we no-

ticed in describing historicism and passivism, he does not

believe that this much matters now. It cannot be evidence of

any deep and dominant contemporary opinion to which he

must refer, as one aspect or dimension of interpretation, for

reasons of fairness. The old legislative history i1s no longer an

act of the nation personified declaring some contemporary

public purpose. Nor is this the kind of issue in which it is

more important that institutional practice be settled than

that it be settled in the right way. The Court had already, in

earlier cases, given people reason to doubt that established

patterns of racial distinction would be protected much
