63

INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

tions about fit just described, otherwise the latter could not

constrain the former, and he could not, after all, distinguish

interpretation from invention. But they need not be so much

shared within his community, for the interpretive attitude to

flourish, as his sense of preinterpretive boundaries or even his

convictions about the required degree of fit.

PHILOSOPHERS OF COURTESY

Institutional Identity

In Chapter 1 we reviewed classical theories or philosophies of

law, and I argued that, read in the way they usually are,

these theories are unhelpful because paralyzed by the se-

mantic sting. Now we can ask what kind of philosophical

theories would be helpful to people who take the interpretive

attitude I have been describing toward some social tradition.

Suppose our imaginary community of courtesy boasts a phi-

losopher who is asked, in the salad days of the interpretive

attitude, to prepare a philosophical account of courtesy. He

is given these instructions: “We do not want your own sub-

stantive views, which are of no more interest than those of

anyone else, about what courtesy actually requires. We want

a more conceptual theory about the nature of courtesy,

about what courtesy is in virtue of the very meaning of the

word. Your theory must be neutral about our day-to-day

controversies; 1t should provide the conceptual background

or rules governing these controversies rather than taking

sides.” What can he do or say in reply? He 1s in a posttion

like that of the social scientist I cited, who must join the

practices he describes. He cannot offer a set of semantic rules

for proper use of the word “courtesy” like the rules he might

offer for using “book.” He cannot say that taking off one’s

hat to a lady is by definition a case of courtesy, the way

Moby-Dick might be said to be a book by definition. Or that

sending a thank-you note is a borderline case that can prop-

erly be treated as either falling under courtesy or not, as a
