NOTES TO PAGES 74-77

425

that they can serve as the basis for criticizing other people’s prac-

tices of justice even, or especially, when these are radically differ-

ent. The leeways of interpretation are accordingly much more

relaxed: a theory of justice is not required to provide a good fit

with the political or social practices of any particular community,

but only with the most abstract and elemental convictions of each

interpreter. (For a recent discussion of the differences between jus-

tice and law in this respect, see A Matter of Principle chap. 10, and

my exchange with Michael Walzer, New York Review of Books, Apr.

14, 1983.) Justice is special in another way. Since it is the most

distinctly political of the moral 1deals, it provides a natural and fa-

miliar element in interpretation of other social practices. Interpre-

tations of law, as we shall see, often appeal to justice as part of the

point they deploy at the interpretive stage. Interpretations of jus-

tice cannot themselves appeal to justice, and this helps to explain

the philosophical complexity and ambition of many theories of

justice. For once justice is ruled out as the point of a fundamental

and pervasive political practice, it 1s natural to turn for a justifica-

tion to initially nonpolitical 1deas, like human nature or the the-

ory of the self, rather than to other political 1deas that seem no

more important or fundamental than justice itself.

21. But the fact that Marx’s political theory is so plainly not

captured by this statement of the concept explains his own ambiv-

alence, and the ambivalence of his students and critics, whether to

count his theory as a theory of justice. For an intriguing account,

see Stephen Lukes, Marxism and Morality (London, 1985).

22. Since even the preinterpretive stage requires interpretation,

these boundaries around the practice are not precise or secure. So

we disagree about whether one can be unjust to animals, or only

cruel, and about whether relations between groups, as distinct

from individuals, are matters of justice.

23. Some critics who are generally enthusiastic about this pic-

ture of interpretation try to meliorate its skeptical thrust. They

rcly on the idea that “critical communities” commonly develop

“conventions’” about what counts as a good or bad interpretation

of a particular text, and they say that these conventions give indi-

viduals a sense of a constraint outside themselves, and therefore of

a discovery, when they come to see the implications of these con-

ventions for a particular work of art. See Stanley Fish, Is There a

Text in This Class? (Cambridge, Mass., 1980). But this “solution” is
