NOTES TO PAGES 354-358

LY

chap. 16, and the controversy over the words “restraint or coer-

cion” in NLRB v. Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Co., 338 U.S. 175

(1967). Justice Black thought the literal meaning of these words

clear, while Brennan thought them “inherently imprecise.” See 1d.

XG0

13. See Allan Hutchison and John Wakefield, “A Hard Look at

Hard Cases,” 2 Oxford Journal of Legal Studies 86 (1982).

14. A simple chess computer program scans every legal move

before it moves any piece. It draws no distinction between easy

and hard cases. If the queen 1s en pris, and only one move will save

her, it will nevertheless solemnly consider and reject each of the

moves that lead to the queen’s loss. Unlike the simple computer, I

myself act differently when I think the case is an easy one. I do not

consider the consequences of each move that leads to the capture

of the queen; I just move her out of harm’s way. This does not

show that I use an antecedent distinction between easy and hard

cases as a switchpoint and apply a different theory of what makes

a chess move a good one 1n easy cases. Better players have an in-

stinct that may alert them, in some case I treat as easy, to the pos-

sibility of a brilllant queen gambit. So they might consider, at

least briefly, some moves I would not. Good players and I draw the

distinction between hard and easy cases differently, not because

we use diflerent theories about what makes a move a good one,

but because we have different skill in applying the single theory

W10

10. THE CONSTITUTION

1. Marbury v. Madison, 5 U.S. (1 Cranch) 137 (1803).

2. | offer no argument for this flat claim; a further book would

be necessary to do so. It would have to take into account, among

other things, that the Supreme Court’s record has been spotty,

that the institutions I call “majoritarian” have not always—some

would say never—represented either the opinions or the interests

of the majority of citizens, and that the Court has sometimes exer-

cised the power Marshall declared to make these institutions more

majoritarian than they would otherwise have been.

3. Justice John Paul Stevens recently criticized certain fellow

justices as inconsistent. They are, he said, widely regarded as

conservative and yet have been radically revising whole areas of
