302

THE CONSTITUTION

voted for it. He will then find that these statesmen had a va-

riety of political opinions pertinent to racial segregation.

Their dominant conviction was abstract: that the Constitu-

tion should require the law to treat all citizens as equals.

That 1s the conviction they actually described in the lan-

guage demanding “equal protection of the laws.” Many of

them had the further concrete conviction that racial segrega-

tion did not violate that requirement, but the historicist,

who is committed to keeping faith with their convictions as a

whole, must ask whether that concrete conviction was in fact

consistent with the dominant one, or was rather a misappre-

hension, understandable in the circumstances, of what the

dominant one really required. If the historicist himself be-

lieves that racial segregation is inconsistent with the concep-

tion of equality the framers accepted at a more abstract

level, he will think that fidelity to their convictions as a whole

requires holding segregation unconstitutional. (He may hold

a different view: that circumstances have changed so that al-

though segregation was consistent with that conception in

the late nineteenth century, it is not consistent now. Then he

will also think fidelity requires declaring segregation uncon-

stitutional.) It would be a philosophical confusion, here as in

the statutory cases we considered in Chapter g, to deny that

the framers’ convictions could have been in conflict. They

were committed to the principle that the law must treat

people as equals, and commitments are, in the language I

used in that chapter, transparent not opaque. We have good

reason to think that the framers themselves understood this,

that they did not believe that the Constitution should be

read 1In an opaque way, or that nothing could violate the

Fourteenth Amendment except what they thought violated

it.” But even if they did think that constitutions should be

read as opaque, a historicist would still have to decide

whether that conviction was consistent with their more ab-

stract, and necessarily transparent, conviction that America

)

should henceforth treat everyone as equal before the law.

So the historicist’s interpretive problem is not solved but
