INTEGRITY

221

age rather than advance racial equality and make education

more difficult for everyone for a generation. It was also sen-

sible to think that the Court’s order would never be fully

obeyed, and that its failure would impair the power of the

Court to protect minorities and enforce constitutional rights

in the future.

Even if a pragmatist decided in the end that the decision

the Court actually reached was the best, all things consid-

ered, he might well have paused before extending that de-

cision in the dramatic way the Supreme Court did in

subsequent years. The practical arguments against busing

black children to white schools, and vice versa, were and re-

main very powerful, as the menace and hatred in several

northern cities continue to make plain. A conception of law

built on the interpretive principle of integrity provides much

less room for practical arguments of that sort in establishing

substantive constitutional rights.”” It is therefore more de-

manding and much more radical in circumstances like those

of Brown, when the plaintiff succeeds in showing that an 1m-

portant part of what has been thought to be law is inconsis-

tent with more fundamental principles necessary to justify

law as a whole.

Integrity is also narrower than consistency 1n a way we

have already noticed, though it 1s sufficiently important to

notice again. Integrity i1s about principle and does not re-

quire any simple form of consistency in policy.” The legisla-

tive principle of integrity demands that the legislature strive

to protect for everyone what it takes to be their moral and

political rights, so that public standards express a coherent

scheme of justice and fairness. But the legislature makes

many decisions that favor a particular group, not on the

ground that the best conception of justice declares that that

group has a right to that benefit, but only because benefiting

that group happens to work for the general interest. If the

legislature provides subsidies for farmers who grow wheat,

for example, in order to ensure an adequate crop, or pays

corn farmers not to plant because there is too much corn, it
