WHAT IS LAW?

S

tions everyone agrees they do; not only about whether Mrs.

McLoughlin should have her damages, but about how and

why past judicial decisions change the law of the land. They

disagreed about what makes a proposition of law true not

just at the margin but in the core as well. Our sample cases

were understood by those who argued about them in court-

rooms and classrooms and law reviews as pivotal cases test-

ing fundamental principles, not as borderline cases calling

for some more or less arbitrary line to be drawn.

THE REAL ARGUMENT FOR SEMANTIC THEORIES

If legal argument is mainly or even partly about pivotal

cases, then lawyers cannot all be using the same factual cri-

teria for deciding when propositions of law are true and

false. Their arguments would be mainly or partly about

which criteria they should use. So the project of the semantic

theories, the project of digging out shared rules from a care-

ful study of what lawyers say and do, would be doomed to

fail. The waiting challenge has now matured. Why are posi-

tivists so sure that legal argument is not what it seems to be?

Why are they so sure, appearances to the contrary, that law-

yers follow common rules for using “law”? It cannot be expe-

rience that convinces them of this, for experience teaches the

contrary. They say judicial and legal practice i1s not what it

seems. But then why not? The symptoms are classic and my

diagnosis familiar. The philosophers of semantic theory suf-

fer from some block. But what block i1s 1t?

Notice the following argument. If two lawyers are actually

following different rules in using the word “law,” using differ-

ent factual criteria to decide when a proposition of law is

true or false, then each must mean something different from

the other when he says what the law is. Earl and Gray must

mean different things when they claim or deny that the law

permits murderers to inherit: Earl means that his grounds

for law are or are not satisfied, and Gray has in mind his own
