THE CONSTITUTION

R

agrees with Bentham (and with some Marxists and com-

munitarians) that people have no rights as individuals, he

might well think the Constitution better the fewer con-

straints it imposes on the majority’s will. Or at least that any

constraints should be designed to protect the democratic

character of the legislative process rather than to check what

the majority actually wants or requires."” But this straight-

forward argument for passivism would be unpersuasive to

most Americans, who do not accept that view of justice.

The second argument from justice does not deny that in-

dividuals have rights, as a matter of justice, against the ma-

jority. It opposes constitutional constraints for the more

complicated reason that over the long run legislatures are

more likely to develop a sounder theory of what rights justice

does require than courts trying to interpret the vague lan-

guage of abstract constitutional provisions. There 1s an obvi-

ous objection to that claim. Legislators who have been

elected, and must be reelected, by a political majority are

more likely to take that majority’s side in any serious argu-

ment about the rights of a minority against it; if they oppose

the majority’s wishes too firmly, it will replace them with

those who do not. For that reason legislators seem less likely

to reach sound decisions about minority rights than officials

who are less vulnerable in that way. It does not follow that

judges, insulated from the majority’s rebuke, are the ideal

people to decide about these rights. Judges have their own

ideological and personal interests in the outcome of cases,

and they can be tyrants too. But there 1s no a priori reason to

think them less competent political theorists than state legis-

lators or attorneys general.

Nor does history suggest that they are. Passivists cite

Lochner and other cases in which the Supreme Court,

wrongly, it 1s now agreed, appealed to individual rights to

forestall or cripple desirable and just legislative programs.

But we would have more to regret if the Court had accepted

passivism wholeheartedly: southern schools might still be

segregated, for example. Indeed, if we were to collect the
