INTEGRITY

204

munities first. But not every group established by social

practice counts as associative: a bare community must meet

the four conditions of a true community before the responsi-

bilities 1t declares become genuine. Interpretation is needed

at this stage, because the question whether the practice

meets the conditions of genuine community depends on how

the practice 1s properly understood, and that 1s an interpre-

tive question. Since interpretation is In part a matter of

justice, this stage may show that apparently unjust responsi-

bilities are not really part of the practice after all, because

they are condemned by principles needed to justify other re-

sponsibilities the practice imposes. But we cannot count on

this: the best interpretation available may show that its un-

just features are compatible with the rest of its structure.

Then, though the obligations it imposes are prima facie gen-

uine, the question arises whether the injustice 1s so severe

and deep that these obligations are canceled. That is one

possibility, and practices of racial unity and discrimination

seem likely examples. But sometimes the injustice will not be

that great; dilemmas are then posed because the unjust obli-

gations the practice creates are not entirely erased.

I can illustrate this complex structure by expanding an

example already used. Does a daughter have an obligation

to defer to her father’s wishes in cultures that give parents

power to choose spouses for daughters but not sons? We ask

first whether the four conditions are met that transform the

bare institution of family, in the form this has taken there,

into a true community, and that raises a nest of interpretive

questions in which our convictions about justice will figure.

Does the culture genuinely accept that women are as impor-

tant as men? Does 1t see the special parental power over

daughters as genuinely in the daughters’ interest? If not, if

the discriminatory treatment of daughters is grounded in

some more general assumption that they are less worthy

than sons, the association is not genuine, and not distinctly

assoclative responsibilities, of any character, arise from it. If

the culture does accept the equality of the sexes, on the other
