INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

17

really are better than others. Someone just converted to a

new reading of Paradise Lost, trembling with the excitement

of discovery, thinks his new reading is right, that it is better

than the one he has abandoned, that those yet uninitiated

have missed something genuine and important, that they do

not see the poem for what 1t really i1s. He thinks he has been

driven by the truth, not that he has chosen one interpreta-

tion to wear for the day because he fancies it like a necktie.

He thinks he has genuine, good reasons for accepting his new

interpretation and that others, who cling to the older view he

now thinks wrong, have genuine, good reasons to change

their minds. Some literary critics, however, believe this is

all deep confusion; they say it 1s a mistake to think one

PN’

Interpretive opinion can really be better than another.

We shall see, in Chapter 7, that many legal scholars say

much the same thing about the decisions judges make in

hard cases like our sample cases of Chapter 1: they say that

there can be no right answer in hard cases but only different

answers.

Much of what I have said about interpretation through-

out this chapter might be thought to support this skeptical

critique of the ordinary, right-wrong view. I offered this gen-

eral and very abstract characterization of interpretation: it

aims to make the object or practice being interpreted the

best it can be. So an interpretation of Hamlet tries to make of

the text the best play 1t can be, and an interpretation of

courtesy tries to make of the various practices of courtesy the

best social institution these practices can be. This characteri-

zation of Interpretation seems hostile to any claim of unique-

ness of meaning, for it insists that different people, with

different tastes and values, will just for that reason “see’ dif-

ferent meanings in what they interpret. It appears to support

skepticism, because the idea that there can be a “right” an-

swer to questions about aesthetic or moral or social value

strikes many people as even stranger than that there can be a

right answer to questions about the meanings of texts and
