STATUTES

333

should not be stopped when 1t would be unreasonable to do

50, she does not think 1t would be unreasonable to halt the

'I'VA dam. But this is no better an objection here than it was

a moment ago. It takes the wrong view of the content of

Smith’s abstract conviction. She does not think that the sec-

rctary should have no power to make decisions she regards as

unreasonable—that would be an extraordinary opinion—

hut that he should not have power to make decisions that are

i fact unreasonable. No other reading of her conviction

makes sense of 1t as a conviction, and 1t makes no difference

to this point that the conviction 1s expressed in “‘judgmen-

tal” language about reasonableness rather than in “factual”

language about the actual consequences of the new dam.

[Hermes must still ask whether this specific conviction about

the snail darter 1s consistent with her more abstract convic-

tions about reasonableness 1n general, and if not, which of

these convictions he must enforce.

Toward Hercules

[f he treats this as an interpretive problem, trying to find the

assignment of opinions about the relative importance of spe-

cies and other goals that makes sense of her political behav-

lor as a whole, he will probably decide that her opinion

about the snail darter 1s, within the larger set of her more

general opinions, a mistake. He will then think he respects

her convictions as a whole better by 1gnoring her concrete

opinion about the snail darter and allowing the dam to

open. What reason could he have for the contrary decision,

that her convictions are respected better by deferring to that

concrete opinion? (Remember that she has never expressed

that concrete opinion in any ofhcial way; Hermes just knows

she has it the way he knows she has the other, more general

convictions he believes inconsistent with it.) Someone might

say: when judges and legislators disagree on any matter, the

principle of legislative supremacy argues that the legislators’

opinion must govern. Smith and Hermes do disagree about
