L&

NOTES TO PAGES 275-282

law of tort and more generally, and no difficulty in accepting both

at the level of abstract principle. These principles are sometimes

competitive, but they are not contradictory. He asks whether past

decisions in cases in which they do conflict have resolved them co-

herently. Perhaps they have, though whatever account he accepts

of that resolution will probably require him to treat some past de-

cisions, those that fall on the wrong side of some line, as mistakes.

Perhaps not: perhaps a coherent legal system must treat all cases

of this kind of conflict in the same way. Then he must ask, in the

way now becoming familiar, whether one of the choices the system

might make between the principles is ruled out on grounds of fit; if

neither is, he must decide which is superior in personal and politi-

cal morality, and though others would decide differently, that in

itself 1s no objection to his choice.

21. See the symposium on critical legal studies, supra n. 17.

8. THE COMMON LAW

1. Some lawyers have been tempted by the remarkable claim

that this single principle provides all that even Hercules needs to

construct a comprehensive interpretation of all parts of the law

from constitutional structure to the details of rules of evidence and

procedure. See generally Richard A. Posner, The Economic Analysis

of Law (2nd ed., Boston, 1977). That imperial claim must fail, of

course, 1f the more limited claim we shall consider, that it provides

the best interpretation of unintended damage law, fails.

2. See Judge Learned Hand’s formulation of this principle in

Unuited States v. Carroll Towing Co., 159 F.2d 164, 173 (2d Cir. 1947).

3. See Posner, supra n. 1, at ro-12.

4. See generally Guido Calabrest, The Cost of Accidents (New

Haven, 1970); Calabresi, “I'ransaction Closts, Resource Allocation

and Liability Rules—A Comment,” 11 Journal of Law and Fconomics

67 (1968); Ronald Coase, ““T'he Problem of Social Cost,” 3 _Journal

of Law and Economics 1 (1960). See also Guido Calabresi and

A. Douglas Melamed, “Property Rules, Liability Rules, and In-

alienability: One View of the Cathedral,” 85 Harvard Law Review

IO YD

5. See Calabresi and Melamed, supra n. 4, at 1089, 1096-97.

6. Notice how this argument provides support, from the eco-
