120

CONVENTIONALISM

finds in past decisions but directs him also to regard as law

what morality would suggest to be the best justification of

these past decisions. This judge decides McLoughlin by em-

ploying his own moral convictions, which is just what the

popular ideal abhors. Once he is satisfied that the law as he

understands it is for Mrs. McLoughlin, he will feel justified

in deciding in her favor, whatever the present legislature

thinks and whether or not popular morality agrees.

LEGAL CONVENTIONS

Conventionalism is a conception—an Interpretation—of

legal practice and tradition,; its fate depends on our ability to

see 1n our practice conventions of the kind that 1t considers

the exclusive grounds of law. If we cannot find the special

legal conventions conventionalism requires, 1t 1s defeated in

both its interpretive claims and its forward-looking, post-

interpretive instructions. It will not fit our practice well

enough to count as an eligible interpretation, and its norma-

tive program will be empty, because it instructs us to follow

conventions that do not exist. So we must begin our inspec-

tion of this conception by asking how far our legal practice

can be understood as exhibiting conventions of the required

sort. Even if we do find such conventions, the appeal of the

conception still depends on the political 1deal of protected

expectations. We must ask how attractive that ideal really 1s,

how well the conception serves it, and whether 1t can be

served as well or better through other conceptions of law.

I begin, however, with the more immediate question

whether we have the conventions conventionalism needs. It

does not claim that all lawyers and judges are already con-

ventionalists. It concedes that some actual judicial decisions

and practices are very different from those a conventionalist

would make or approve: these it is prepared to count as mis-

takes. Nevertheless it insists that legal practice as a whole

can be seen as organized around important legal conven-
