Py

NOTES TO PAGES 62-64

attractive reading that is also eligible given the text. In that case

his strategy 1s parasitic on the normal description, because he will

succeed only 1if his audience is unaware of his true aims; only if

they believe he has tried to produce the best interpretation that

IERP

13. Gadamer, supra n. 2.

14. Habermas observes that social science differs from natural

science for just that reason. He argues that even when we discard

the Newtonian view of natural science as the explanation of the-

ory-neutral phenomena, in favor of the modern view that a scien-

tist’s theory will determine what he takes the data to be, an

important difference nevertheless remains between natural and

social science. Social scientists find their data already pre-inter-

preted. They must understand behavior the way 1t is already un-

derstood by the people whose behavior it is; a social scientist must

be at least a “virtual” participant in the practices he means to de-

scribe. He must, that is, stand ready to judge as well as report the

claims his subjects make, because unless he can judge them he

cannot understand them. (See Habermas, supra n. 2, at 1o2-11.) I

argue, in the text, that a social scientist attempting to understand

an argumentative social practice like the practice of courtesy (or,

as I shall claim, law) must therefore participate in the spirit of its

ordinary participants, even when his participation is only “vir-

tual.” Since they do not mean to be interpreting each other in the

conversational way when they offer their views of what courtesy

really requires, neither can he when he offers his views. His inter-

pretation of courtesy must contest theirs and must therefore be

constructive interpretation rather than conversational interpreta-

tion.

15. The idea of a social or group consciousness seems to ofler an

escape from a serious difficulty that is widely thought to threaten

the possibility of conversational interpretation across cultures and

times. How can we hope to understand what someone wrote or

thought in a different culture long ago, or what his social practices

and 1nstitutions meant to him? We cannot understand him unless

we see the world as he does, but we cannot escape seeing it the way

we already do, the way caught up in our own language and cul-

ture, and from that point of view his claims may seem silly and

unmotivated. (For a version of this argument in a legal context,

see Robert Gordon, “Historicism in Legal Scholarship,” go Yale
