INTEGRITY IN LAW

227

detailed interpretations it recommends. We must therefore

now return to the general study of interpretation we began

in Chapter 2. We must continue the account given there of

what interpretation is and when it is done well, but in more

detail and directed more to the special interpretive challenge

put to judges and others who must say what the law is.

Integrity and History

History matters in law as integrity: very much but only in a

certain way. Integrity does not require consistency in princi-

ple over all historical stages of a community’s law; i1t does not

require that judges try to understand the law they enforce as

continuous in principle with the abandoned law of a previ-

ous century or even a previous generation. It commands a

horizontal rather than vertical consistency of principle

across the range of the legal standards the community now

enforces. It insists that the law—the rights and duties that

flow from past collective decisions and for that reason license

or require coercion—contains not only the narrow explicit

content of these decisions but also, more broadly, the scheme

of principles necessary to justify them. History matters be-

cause that scheme of principle must justify the standing as

well as the content of these past decisions. Our justification

for treating the Endangered Species Act as law, unless and

until it 1s repealed, crucially includes the fact that Congress

enacted it, and any justification we supply for treating that

fact as crucial must itself accommodate the way we treat

other events in our political past.

Law as integrity, then, begins in the present and pursues

the past only so far as and in the way its contemporary focus

dictates. It does not aim to recapture, even for present law,

the 1deals or practical purposes of the politicians who first

created i1t. It aims rather to justify what they did (sometimes

including, as we shall see, what they said) in an overall story

worth telling now, a story with a complex claim: that present

practice can be organized by and justified in principles sufhi-
