THE COMMON LAW

S

Qualifications

We now have the main outlines of a partial theory of per-

sonal responsibility. We will not apply this theory—at least

not in so simple a form—on every occasion when uses of pri-

vate property conflict in ways not governed by explicit past

political decisions. When should we reject 1t? I assumed, 1n

considering the conflict between my trumpet and your alge-

bra, that the explicit distribution of property between us was

equal, judged from the viewpoint of equality of resources.

That does not necessarily mean (although I did in fact as-

sume this) that neither of us is richer than the other. For you

might be richer than me for reasons perfectly consistent with

resource equality between us. I might have spent more than

you in the past or chosen a job that paid me less. Neverthe-

less I might know something about you that made the as-

sumption of resource equality between us implausible: I

might know that you are severely handicapped, for example,

and had received no social resources by way of compensa-

tion. In that case the principle of comparative financial

harm, which makes concrete rights turn on the question

which of us would pay more for the opportunity, might not

be appropriate because it might not secure the distribution

between us that resource equality recommends 1n these cir-

cumstances.'® But when my action will affect, not some par-

ticular known person or group about whom I can discover

information of that character, but unknown people about

whom I cannot, I should presume that comparative cost

provides the right test. Even if I believe that resources have

been distributed unequally, I normally have no reason to

presume anything about the direction of the inequality with

respect to the particular people my act will affect.

I also assumed, implicitly, that it was proper to regard my

all-or-nothing decision whether to take up some opportu-

nity, in the absence of a realistic opportunity for negotiation,

as an 1solated issue. If we really are neighbors, this assump-
