RS

WHAT IS LAW?

outright; instead he relied on controversial sociological evi-

dence to show that racially segregated schools could not be

equal, for that reason alone. Nor did he say flatly that the

Court was now overruling Plessy. He said only that if the

present decision was inconsistent with Plessy, then that ear-

lier decision was being overruled. The most important com-

promise, for practical purposes, was in the design of the

remedy the opinion awarded the plaintifls. It did not order

the schools of the southern states to be desegregated immedi-

ately, but only, in a phrase that became an emblem of hy-

pocrisy and delay, “with all deliberate speed.””’

The decision was very controversial, the process of inte-

gration that followed was slow, and significant progress re-

quired many more legal, political, and even physical battles.

Critics said that segregation, however deplorable as a matter

of political morality, is not unconstitutional.”® They pointed

out that the phrase “equal protection” does not in itself de-

cide whether segregation is forbidden or not, that the partic-

ular congressmen and state officials who drafted, enacted,

and ratified the Fourteenth Amendment were well aware of

segregated education and apparently thought their amend-

ment left it perfectly legal, and that the Court’s decision in

Plessy was an important precedent of almost ancient lineage

and ought not lightly be overturned. These were arguments

about the proper grounds of constitutional law, not argu-

ments of morality or repair: many who made them agreed

that segregation was immoral and that the Constitution

would be a better document if 1t had forbidden 1t. Nor were

the arguments of those who agreed with the Court argu-

ments of morality or repair. If the Constitution did not as a

matter of law prohibit official racial segregation, then the

decision in Brown was an 1llicit constitutional amendment,

and few who supported the decision thought they were sup-

porting that. This case, like our other sample cases, was

fought over the question of law. Or so it seems from the

opinion, and so it seemed to those who fought it.
