6]

WHAT IS LAW?

go to them instead of Elmer. They argued that since Elmer

had murdered the testator, their father, the law entitled

Elmer to nothing.

The law pertaining to wills i1s for the most part set out in

special statutes, often called statutes of wills, which stipulate

the form a will must take to be considered valid in law: how

many and what kinds of witnesses must sign, what the men-

tal state of the testator must be, how a valid will, once exe-

cuted, may be revoked or changed by the testator, and so

forth. The New York statute of wills, like most others in force

at that time, said nothing explicit about whether someone

named 1n a will could inherit according to its terms if he had

murdered the testator. Elmer’s lawyer argued that since the

will violated none of the explicit provisions of the statute it

was valid, and since Elmer was named in a valid will he

must inherit. He said that if the court held for Goneril and

Regan, it would be changing the will and substituting its

own moral convictions for the law. The judges of the highest

court of New York all agreed that their decision must be in

accordance with the law. None denied that if the statute of

wills, properly interpreted, gave the inheritance to Elmer,

they must order the administrator to give it to him. None

sald that in that case the law must be reformed in the inter-

ests of justice. They disagreed about the correct result in the

case, but their disagreement—or so it seems from reading the

opinions they wrote—was about what the law actually was,

about what the statute required when properly read.

How can people who have the text of a statute in front of

them disagree about what it actually means, about what law

it has made? We must draw a distinction between two senses

of the word “statute.” It can describe a physical entity of a

certain type, a document with words printed on it, the very

words congressmen or members of Parliament had in front

of them when they voted to enact that document. But it can

also be used to describe the law created by enacting that

document, which may be a much more complex matter.

Consider the difference between a poem conceived as a series
