STATUTES

RRL

permitted to lead rather than follow national opinion in fix-

ing on some conception of what the public interest is, as sug-

gested by her opinions and votes about national subsidies for

the arts, for instance.

None of these potential conflicts worried Hermes when he

considered treating Smith’s various opinions as either hopes

or expectations or when he puzzled about how she would

have voted had the snail darter question been raised. His

initial reasons for thinking it important whether she would

have voted for a particular amendment had it been intro-

duced would not have been undermined if that counterfac-

I

vote

had been

inconsistent with other votes.

But

Hermes’ new convictions approach 1s different. He now be-

lieves that statutes should be read to promote the aims of a

community of principle, that is, that they should be read to

express a coherent scheme of conviction dominant within

the legislature that enacted them. He 1s assuming that

Smith’s views are representative of those of her colleagues; if

he suspects that some of her concrete opinions are in conflict

with, and are condemned by, her more general and funda-

mental political convictions, he must ask which reading of

the statute would best serve all her convictions taken to-

gether, as a structured system of 1deas, made coherent so far

as this 1s possible.

That is an important conclusion, for as we shall shortly

see, 1t will lead Hermes steadily toward Hercules’ interpre-

tive methods for reading a statute, the methods Hermes

began by rejecting. We should pause, however, to notice a

logical mistake that might tempt someone to deny its impor-

tance: I mean the mistake of thinking that Smith’s various

convictions can never really be in conflict with each other. 1

start by describing a crude form of this mistake, which no

one would be tempted to make. Suppose Smith believes, as

we just imagined, that the conservation of species is a matter

of such importance that the nation must make great sacrifice

to achieve this goal. She has thought about the snail darter,

and she believes that the TVA dam should be combpleted
