PRAGMATISM AND PERSONIFICATION

YN

bility can be assigned only through something like the first

method we noticed in the accident example. In fact, the

convictions these arguments try to explain are the product of

the second approach, of a deep personification of political

and social community, and that 1s why they do not challenge

the Kantian thesis that no one is to blame for what he has

not himself done. Of course it would be absurd to blame con-

temporary Germans for what the Nazis did; but, because this

judgment lies at the end of a different and independent

mode of argument, it is not absurd to suppose that contem-

porary Germans have special responsibilities because the

Nazis were Germans too.

These are examples of collective responsibility for past

wrongs. We find other and even more important examples of

working personification in the logic of individual political

rights against the state. We argue about whether everyone

has a right that the state protect him from assaults by other

citizens, or provide him a decent level of medical care, or

guarantee his security from attack by foreign powers. We

agree or disagree before we form any concrete opinions

about which institutions or officials must act and what they

must do in consequence of whatever rights we declare people

have. When we say that individuals have a right to be pro-

tected against assault, we do not mean that this protection

must be achieved through some particular scheme we al-

ready have in mind. But only that the community as a whole

has a duty to provide adequate protection in some way. We

can debate the scope of the community’s duty and leave for

separate consideration the different issue of which arrange-

ment of official duties would best acquit the communal re-

JeTe e Rits1ta

My next and last example draws on our most abstract and

widely shared convictions about political justice and fair-

ness. We believe political officials have responsibilities we

could not defend if we had to build these directly from the

ordinary requirements of individual personal morality most

of us accept for ourselves and others in nonpolitical life. We
