INTEGRITY IN LAW

204

of this means that neither Hercules nor any other judge or

critic can be “really” right about what the law 1s. But Her-

cules’ opinion will be controversial no matter how we answer

that philosophical question, and his new critic seizes just on

the fact of controversiality, untainted by any appeal to

either external or internal skepticism. “Whether or not there

are right answers to the interpretive questions on which

Hercules’ judgment depends, it 1s unfair that the answer of

one judge (or a bare majority of judges on a panel) be ac-

cepted as final when he has no way to prove, against those

who disagree, that his opinion is better.”

We must return, for an answer, to our more general case

for law as integrity. We want our officials to treat us as tied

together 1n an association of principle, and we want this for

reasons that do not depend on any identity of conviction

among these officials, either about fit or about the more sub-

stantive principles an interpretation engages. Our reasons

endure when judges disagree, at least in detail, about the

best interpretation of the community’s political order, be-

cause each judge still confirms and reinforces the principled

character of our association by striving, in spite of the dis-

agreement, to reach his own opinion instead of turning to

the usually simpler task of fresh legislation. But even if this

were not so, the present objection could not count as an ob-

jection to law as integrity distinctly, for it would apply in its

full force to pragmatism or to conventionalism, which be-

comes pragmatism in any case hard enough to come before

an appellate court. How can it be fairer for judges to enforce

their own views about the best future, unconstrained by any

requirement of coherence with the past, than the more com-

plex but no less controversial judgments that law as integrity

(eI II gy

Another minor critic appears. His complaint is from a dif-

ferent quarter. “Hercules,” he says, “is a myth. No real judge

has his powers, and it 1s absurd to hold him out as a model

for others to follow. Real judges decide hard cases much

more instinctively. They do not construct and test various
