THE COMMON LAW

294

constantly have to consider whether others would pay more

for our not doing something than we would or could pay for

the privilege of doing it, and if they would, we should have

to forbear (though of course without actually being paid to

do so). I know, for example, that many conscientious profes-

sors of law feel a responsibility to read whatever is published

in legal philosophy and therefore wish that much less were

written. It seems reasonable to think that if such a negotia-

tion were possible and costless, the academic community as a

whole would pay me more to not publish this book than I

could pay for the right to publish it, because I could not earn

enough from royalties to meet their bid even if I wanted to

do so. If I had a moral responsibility not to publish just for

that reason, my life, in this respect and then in countless

others, would collapse into only those activities I could and

would want to outbid others for the privilege of performing.

Personal autonomy would almost disappear in a society

whose members accepted the market-simulating duty, be-

cause the duty would never sleep.

The utilitarian market simulator might want, therefore, to

consider a different tack. He might want to fall back on the

distinction I described between two levels of utilitarian ar-

gument; he might hope to show that overall happiness is best

served 1n the long run if people do not accept his strict re-

quirement always to consider other people’s interests as

equal 1n importance to their own but instead act in the more

relaxed way they presently do. No such argument has ever

been produced, and we must wait until one is to evaluate his

chances of success. Any attempt, however, is likely to seem

ad hoc. For the two-level argument must show not just that

more utility would be produced by relaxing the strict re-

quirement In practice, but that most utility 1s produced by

relaxing that requirement in a particular way: by insisting

on it when, and only when, abstract legal rights in property

conflict. Perhaps this can be shown, but it is hardly evident,

and the danger is lively that someone who attempts it will in
