THE COMMON LAW

290

standards that sometimes ignored prosperity for other

values? I think not; these claims may be true, but we have no

persuasive evidence that they are.

We might, however, want to assume that they are true just

for the sake of the utilitarian argument we are considering.

We must then move back to the second step in that argu-

ment and ask whether its thesis is correct that treating peo-

ple with equal concern means acting so as to improve

average happiness. Critics of utilitarianism invent stories—

sometimes very fanciful stories—that seem to cast doubt on

that thesis. Suppose racial bigots are so numerous and so sa-

distic that torturing an innocent black man would improve

the overall level of happiness in the community as a whole.

Would this justify the torture? Utilitarian philosophers have

a standard reply to these horrifying examples of what utili-

tarianism might require.'’ They say that good moral reason-

ing proceeds on two levels. On the first, or theoretical, level

we should aim to discover those rules or principles of moral-

ity which, as maxims of conduct, are likely to provide the

greatest average happiness within the community over the

long run. On the second, or practical, level we should apply

the maxims so chosen 1n concrete cases. We should decide

what to do on particular occasions, not by asking which par-

ticular decision seems likely to produce more happiness con-

sidered on its own, but by asking what the standards we

chose at the first level would require us to do. Obviously, we

should choose, at the first level of theory, rules that condemn

torture and racial prejudice. This explains and justifies our

“intuition” that it would be wrong to pander to sadism or

prejudice even in special circumstances when we thought a

direct utilitarian calculation, applied only to the immediate

facts, would require this.

But this standard defense of utilitarianism evades the

hard question. Once again 1t mistakes a powerful criticism of

1ts academic elaboration for an erroneous claim about its

practical elaboration, about the moral intuitions it would

encourage statesmen and philosophers to cultivate in ordi-
