CONVENTIONALISM

R

sions made by other political institutions in the past, they

would recognize no general duty to do so. In a conventional-

ist society someone planning his affairs would be able to

count on past decisions endorsed by convention. But in a

pragmatist society he would have to predict whether the

judges would be likely to consider his case as one in which

the virtues of predictability were less important than the

substance of the law, and whether, it they thought substance

more important, they would think a decision for him better

or worse for the community. Pragmatism makes it somewhat

harder to predict what courts will do in what, from the point

of view of conventionalism, are easy cases. But pragmatism

has corresponding advantages. It leaves judges free to

change rules when they think changing them would at least

nuremally ountwergh whatever mischief would be caused by

the change. Tt also encourages the community to anticipate

such changes and so achieves a good part of the benefit of

change without the waste of litigation, or the expensive, un-

certain, and awkward process of legislation.

conventionalism or

Which of these two diflerent regimes

pragmatism  scems likely to produce the better balance be-

tween predictability and flexibility, and therefore the most

efthicient structure for coordinating citizens’ actions in the

long run? We have no reason to think one or the other would

be best for all communities at all times. Too much will de-

pend on details of economic development, patterns of com-

merce, technology, ideology, kinds and levels of social

conflict, and the rest. Of course, these features of a society

will themselves be influenced by its dominant style of adju-

dication. But this makes it all the more unreasonable to sup-

pose that any a priori argument could show that one

strategy will always be the right one. We have, just in this

fact, an argument that if we had to choose one of the two

strategles for the indefinite future we would do better to

choose pragmatism, because it i1s so much more adaptive.

If the economic and social structure of our community

develops in such a way that in retrospect it seems a conven-
