60

INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

tion is part of the very idea of an artistic tradition. But it is

always a somewhat open question, particularly in the gen-

eral critical tradition we call “modernist,” where that value

lies and how far it has been realized. General styles of inter-

pretation are, or at least presuppose, general answers to the

question thus left open. I suggest, then, that the academic

argument about author’s intention should be seen as a par-

ticularly abstract and theoretical argument about where

value lies in art. In that way this argument plays its part,

along with more concrete and valuable arguments more

directed to particular objects, in the overarching practices

that provide us with the aesthetic experience.

This way of seeing the debate among critics explains why

some periods of literary practice have been more concerned

with artistic intention than others: their intellectual culture

ties value in art more firmly to the process of artistic crea-

tion. Cavell points out that “in modernist art the issue of the

artist’s intention

. has taken on a more naked role 1n our

acceptance of his works than in earlier periods,” and that

“the practice of poetry alters in the nineteenth and twentieth

centuries, in such a way that issues of intention . . . are forced

upon the reader by the poem itself.”'® That change reflects

and contributes to the growth in those periods of the roman-

tic conviction that art has the value it does, and realizes that

value in particular objects and events, because and when it

embodies individual creative genius. The dominance of that

view of art’s value in our culture explains not only our preoc-

cupation with intention and sincerity but much else be-

sides—our obsession with originality, for example. So our

dominant style of interpretation fixes on authorial intention,

and arguments within that style about what, more precisely,

artistic intention is reflect more finely tuned doubt and dis-

agreement about the character of creative genius, about the

role of the conscious, the unconscious, and the instinctive in

1ts composition and expression. Some critics who dissent

from the authorial style more markedly, because they em-

phasize values of tradition and continuity in which an
