STATUTES

—

S —

IR

islative history, though her remarks in a nationally televised

speech, which are better evidence of what the public is in-

vited to think about a statute, are not part of legislative his-

tory at all. The main explanation lies elsewhere. Hercules

will see, for reasons I shall try to describe, that official state-

ments of purpose, made in the canonical form established by

the practice of legislative history, should be treated as them-

sclves acts of the state personified. They are themselves polit-

ical decisions, so the chief command of integrity, that the

state act in a principled way, embraces them as well as the

more discrete decisions captured in statutes. Hercules aims

to make the legislative story as a whole as good as it can be;

he would make the story worse if his interpretation showed

the state saying one thing while doing another.

Promuses and Purposes

[t would be absurd, of course, to count every statement any

legislator makes about the purpose of a statute as itself the

act of the state; if two senators argue about what the state is,

or should be, doing in enacting the bill, they are debating

about the state’s act, not themselves acting for it. But a for-

mal committee report, or the unchallenged statement of a

hill’s manager, 1s different; these can be seen as part of what

the legislative process has actually produced, something to

which the community as a whole is thereby committed.’

'hey can be seen that way, that is, if practice designates

them as special, which American practice does. In order to

understand this practice and apply it when 1ts force 1s dis-

puted, as in the snail darter case, Hercules must interpret it:

he must find some account of the practice that fits and justi-

lics 1t. Can any case be made in political morality for count-

g certain formal declarations of point and intention as the

acts of the state itself ? We should begin by framing the most

cvident argument against doing so. The legislative process

alrcady has means available for making such statements

part of the state’s formal decision when this would be desir-
