CONVENTIONALISM

Ky

one way or the other just by reading judicial opinions at

random, for judges are unlikely to explain why they believe

what everyone believes. We must look to the pattern of judi-

cial decisions over time. If we compare settled styles of legis-

lative interpretation or doctrines of precedent in periods

separated by, say, fifty years or more, we find considerable

and sometimes dramatic change. Judicial attitudes in both

Britain and America have changed sharply over the last two

centuries about the 1ssue common to Elmer’s case and the

snail darter case: how far and in what way legislative inten-

tion is relevant in reading statutes.” How shall we explain

such a sea change in the dominant theory of legislation?

The facts are plain enough. Practice changed in response

to arguments made 1n the context of adjudication, as argu-

ments about what judges should do in particular cases, not

in special miniconstitutional conventions. The successful

arguments were drawn from more general movements in the

political and social culture and so formed a part of intellec-

tual as well as legal history. But they did have a distinct legal

life. They appeared in law school classrooms and law review

articles, then as lawyers’ arguments 1n particular cases at

law, then as judicial arguments in dissenting opinions ex-

plaining why the majority opinion, reflecting the orthodoxy

of the time, was unsatisfactory, then as the opinions of the

majority in a growing number of cases, and then as proposi-

tions no longer mentioned because they went without say-

ing. All these arguments assumed, throughout their long

careers, that the settled practices they challenged were or-

thodoxies of common conviction, not ground rules of con-

vention. Such arguments would have been powerless, even

silly, if everyone thought that the practices they challenged

needed no support beyond convention or that these practices

constituted the game of law in the way the rules of chess

constitute that game.

Of course, the rules of games do change over time. But

when these rules have become accepted as a matter of con-

vention, then a crisp distinction has necessarily taken hold
