PRAGMATISM AND PERSONIFICATION

170

Someone might say: it i1s a principle of personal morality

that if someone shares in the gains of another’s action he

must also share the responsibility for wrongs that other per-

son does. This suggestion begs the question, however, for we

still lack any reason to suppose that any wrong has been

done. That is, our problem is not one of vicarious liability, of

finding some reason why a shareholder should share some

other person’s or group’s primary responsibility; it is rather

that we can find no one else who 1s primarily responsible and

0

in whose responsibility he might share.'

We might, however, have used a different method of ar-

gument. In that different method we frame our question in

the first instance as a question about corporate responsibil-

ity. We suppose that the corporation must itself be treated as

a moral agent, and then we proceed by applying facsimiles

of our principles about individual fault and responsibility to

it. We might say that anyone who has had full control over

the manufacture of a defective product has a responsibility

to compensate those injured by it. No individual employee

or shareholder has had that control, but the corporation has.

Then we ask, as a further and subsidiary question, how the

various members and agents of the corporation should be

seen to share in that fault or responsibility. But we approach

that independent question using a different set of principles,

among which might be found the principle just mentioned,

that any member of the corporation who is entitled to share

in its profits must share in its responsibilities as well. That

principle would justify paying compensation from the corpo-

rate treasury, and thus from the account of shareholders,

rather than, for example, deducting 1t from the wages of em-

ployees who actually played a causal part in the unfortunate

story.

If we decided through the first of these two methods,

which begins with moral assessment of each individual’s

record one by one, that each shareholder was indeed respon-

sible for a share of the loss, then we might well report our
