STATUTES

SRR

cent career. He will ask what system of convictions provides

overall the best justification for what she has done in office.

Now notice how this affects his decision about an earlier

problem he faced: the problem of combining the “inten-

tions” of discrete legislators one by one into an overall or in-

stitutional intention of the legislature 1tself.

We “solved” that problem for him by an impossible as-

sumption: that the problem does not arise because all the

lcgislators who voted for the act had exactly the same “in-

tentions.” If we continued to use that assumption to solve

the combinatorial problem, it would have to be revised to

take account of Hermes’ new conclusions. We would now

have to assume not just that each legislator had the same

concrete opinions about the snail darter, but that each had

the same more general system of political and moral convic-

tions, exhibited in similar votes on the whole range of legisla-

tive issues, which 1s absurd. So the combinatorial problem

scems to be alive again, and Hermes might, for a brief sec-

ond, consider the following new answer to 1t. He must study

cach legislator’s political record separately, to discover what

view about the secretary’s power to halt the dam would fol-

low from that legislator’s general system of convictions once

conflicts had been identified and resolved. Then he must

choose some method of consolidating these separate views

into the overall view of the legislature itself. He suddenly re-

alizes, however, that he has an alternative strategy he might

use, which offers a more direct and much more manageable

route to the same goal. He can train his interpretive imagi-

nation, not on the legislative record of different legislators

one by one, but on the record of the legislature itself, asking

what coherent system of political convictions would best jus-

tify what 1t has done.

[t seemed a metaphysical mistake to take the “intention”

ol the legislature itself as primary so long as Hermes was in

the grip of some mental-state version of the speaker’s mean-

g theory of legislative intent. So long as we think legislative

mtention 1s a matter of what someone has in mind and
