INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

XS

Interpreter’s artistic convictions: these will often be crucial in

establishing what, for that interpreter, the developed artistic

intention really is.

We can, if we wish, use Cavell’s account to construct a

new description of what the citizens of my imaginary com-

munity of courtesy are doing in interpreting their social

practice, an account that might have seemed preposterous

before this discussion. Each citizen, we might say, is trying to

discover his own intention in maintaining and participating

in that practice—not in the sense of retrieving his mental

state when last he took off his cap to a lady but in the sense

of finding a purposeful account of his behavior he is com-

fortable in ascribing to himself. This new description of so-

cial interpretation as a conversation with oneself, as joint

author and critic, suggests the importance in social interpre-

tation of the shock of recognition that plays such an impor-

tant part in the conversations Cavell imagines with artists.

(“Yes, that does make sense of what I have been doing in

taking oftf my hat; it fits the sense I have of when it would be

wrong to do this, a sense I have not been able to describe but

can now.” Or, “No, it does not.”) Otherwise the new de-

scription adds nothing to my original description that will

prove useful to us. It shows only that the language of inten-

tion, and at least some of the point in the idea that interpre-

tation 1s a matter of intention, 1s available for social as well

as artistic interpretation if we want it. There is nothing in

the idea of intention that necessarily divides the two types of

creative interpretation.

But now we reach a more important point: there is some-

thing in that idea that necessarily unites them. For even if

we reject the thesis that creative interpretation aims to dis-

cover some actual historical intention, the concept of inten-

tion nevertheless provides the formal structure for all

interpretive claims. I mean that an interpretation is by na-

ture the report of a purpose; it proposes a way of seeing what

is interpreted—a social practice or tradition as much as a

text or painting—as if this were the product of a decision to
