PRAGMATISM AND PERSONIFICATION

174

think they have a special and complex responsibility of im-

partiality among the members of the community and of par-

tiality toward them in dealings with strangers. That is quite

different from the responsibility each of us accepts as an in-

dividual. We each claim a personal point of view, ambitions

and attachments of our own we are at liberty to pursue, free

from the claims of others to equal attention, concern, and

resource. We insist on an area of personal moral sovereignty

within which each of us may prefer the interests of family

and friends and devote himself to projects that are selfish,

however grand. Any conception of justice in personal behav-

ior, any theory about how the just person behaves toward

others, will limit that area of personal sovereignty, but no

conception acceptable to most of us will eliminate it entirely.

We allow officials acting in their official capacity no such

area at all. They must, we say, treat all members of their

community as equals, and the individual’s normal latitude

for self-preference is called corruption in their case. We can-

not establish this special responsibility of officials merely by

applying our ordinary convictions about individual respon-

sibility to the circumstances of their case. Some ofhicials have

very great power. But so do many private individuals, and

we do not believe that a citizen’s sphere of personal freedom

necessarily shrinks as his power and influence grow.

(Thomas Nagel reminds us, in his article about the responsi-

bility of political officials, that even giants have personal

lives.)'* We apply the strictest standards of impartiality even

to ofhicials whose power is relatively slight and substantially

less than that of many private citizens; we have no sense that

an ofhcial’s duty of equal concern wanes as his power di-

minishes.

Someone may say that an official lies under a special re-

sponsibility of impartiality because he has accepted his office

subject to that understanding, so these responsibilities are

drawn from ordinary morality after all, from the morality of

keeping promises. But this reverses the order of argument

most of us would endorse: we share an understanding that
