WHAT IS LAW?

23

est. But where the statutory and legislative history, as in

this case, need not be construed to reach such a result, I view

it as the duty of this Court to adopt a permissible construc-

tion that accords with some modicum of common sense and

the public weal.”!” This states yet another theory of legisla-

tion, another theory of how the legislature’s intentions affect

the statute behind the text, and 1t 1s very different from

Burger’s theory. Burger said that the acontextual meaning of

the text should be enforced, no matter how odd or absurd

the consequences, unless the court discovered strong evi-

dence that Congress actually intended the opposite. Powell

said that the courts should accept an absurd result only if

they find compelling evidence that 2t was intended. Burger’s

theory 1s Gray’s, though in a less rigid form that gives some

role to legislative intention. Powell’s theory is like Earl’s,

though in this case it substitutes common sense for the prin-

ciples of justice found elsewhere in the law.

Once again, if we take the opinions of these two justices at

face value, they did not disagree about any historical mat-

ters of fact. They did not disagree about the state of mind of

the various congressmen who joined in enacting the Endan-

gered Species Act. Both justices assumed that most con-

gressmen had never considered whether the act might be

used to halt an expensive dam almost completed. Nor did

they disagree over the question of fidelity. Both accepted

that the Court should follow the law. They disagreed about

the question of law; they disagreed about how judges should

decide what law is made by a particular text enacted by

Congress when the congressmen had the kinds of beliefs and

intentions both justices agreed they had in this instance.

McLoughlin

Elmer’s case and the snail darter case both arose under a

statute. The decision in each case depended upon the best

construction of a real statute from a particular legislative

text. In many lawsuits, however, the plaintiff appeals not to
