INTEGRITY

192

case for legitimacy than one that does not. If that is so, it

provides a strong reason of the sort we have just now been

seeking, a reason why we would do well to see our political

practices as grounded in that virtue. It provides, in particu-

lar, a strong argument for a conception of law that takes in-

tegrity to be fundamental, because any conception must

explain why law is legitimate authority for coercion. Our

claims for integrity are thus tied into our main project of

finding an attractive conception of law.

N IR O XY 1

Philosophers make several kinds of arguments for the legiti-

macy of modern democracies. One argument uses the idea of

a social contract, but we must not confuse it with arguments

that use that idea to establish the character or content of

justice. John Rawls, for example, proposes an imaginary so-

cial contract as a device for selecting the best conception of

Justice in the circumstances of utopian political theory. He

argues that under specified conditions of uncertainty every-

one would choose certain principles of justice as in his inter-

ests, properly understood, and he says that these principles

are therefore the right principles for us.'® Whatever we may

think of his suggestion, 1t has no direct connection to our

present problem of legitimacy in the circumstances of ordi-

nary politics where Rawls’s principles of justice are very far

from dominion. It would be very different, of course, if every

citizen were a party to an actual, historical agreement to ac-

cept and obey political decisions taken in the way his com-

munity’s political decisions are in fact taken. Then the

historical fact of agreement would provide at least a good

prima facie case for coercion even in ordinary politics. So

some political philosophers have been tempted to say that

we have in fact agreed to a social contract of that kind tac-

itly, by just not emigrating when we reach the age of con-

sent. But no one can argue that very long with a straight

face. Consent cannot be binding on people, in the way this
