oY

INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

a tradition of interpretation from which they cannot wholly

escape. The interpretive situation is not an Archimedian

point, nor is that suggested in the idea that interpretation

aims to make what 1s interpreted the best it can seem. Once

again I appeal to Gadamer, whose account of interpretation

as recognizing, while struggling against, the constraints of

13

history strikes the right note.

INTENTIONS AND PRACTICES

In reply to the objection I set out at the beginning of this dis-

cussion, I claim that artistic interpretation in our culture is

constructive interpretation. The large question how far the

best interpretation of a work of art must be faithful to

the author’s intention turns on the constructive question

whether accepting that requirement allows interpretation to

make of the artistic object or experience the best it can be.

Those who think i1t does, because they think genius is the

nerve of art or for some other reason, must make more de-

tailed judgments of artistic value in deciding what the perti-

nent intention of the author really 1s. We must now consider

the objection as it applies specifically to the other form of

creative interpretation, the interpretation of social practices

and structures. How could that form of interpretation aim to

discover anything like an author’s intention? We noticed one

sense in which someone might think it can. A member of a

social practice might think interpreting his practice means

discovering his own intentions in the sense I described. But

that hypothesis ofters no comfort to the objection, because

the objection argues that interpretation must be neutral and

therefore that the interpreter must aim to discover someone

else’s motives and purposes. What sense can we make of that

suggestion in the context of social interpretation?

There are two possibilities. Someone might say that inter-

pretation of a social practice means discovering the purposes

or intentions of the other participants in the practice, the cit-
