INTEGRITY IN LAW

K30

pare two stories. The first supposes that the community per-

sonified has adopted and is enforcing the principle of fore-

sceability as its test of moral responsibility for damage

caused by negligence, that the various decisions 1t has

reached are intended to give effect to that principle, though

it has often lapsed and reached decisions that foreseeability

would condemn. The second supposes, instead, that the

community has adopted and is enforcing the principle of

foreseeability limited by some overall ceiling on liability,

though it has often lapsed from that principle. Which story

shows the community in a better light, all things considered,

from the standpoint of political morality?

Hercules’ answer will depend on his convictions about the

two constituent virtues of political morality we have consid-

ered: justice and fairness.'* It will depend, that is, not only

on his beliefs about which of these principles is superior as a

matter of abstract justice but also about which should be

followed, as a matter of political fairness, In a community

whose members have the moral convictions his fellow citi-

zens have. In some cases the two kinds of judgment—the

judgment of justice and that of fairness—will come together.

If Hercules and the public at large share the view that peo-

ple are entitled to be compensated fully whenever they are

injured by others’ carelessness, without regard to how harsh

this requirement might turn out to be, then he will think

that interpretation (5) is plainly the better of the two in play.

But the two judgments will sometimes pull in different direc-

tions. He may think that interpretation (6) is better on

grounds of abstract justice, but know that this is a radical

view not shared by any substantial portion of the public and

unknown in the political and moral rhetoric of the times. He

might then decide that the story in which the state insists on

the view he thinks right, but against the wishes of the people

as a whole, 1s a poorer story, on balance. He would be prefer-

ring fairness to justice in these circumstances, and that pref-

erence would reflect a higher-order level of his own political
