INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

47

understand legal argument more thoroughly and to see the

role of law in the larger culture more clearly. But first it will

be useful to see how the model holds for a much simpler in-

stitution.

Imagine the following history of an invented community.

Its members follow a set of rules, which they call “rules of

courtesy,” on a certain range of social occasions. They say,

“Courtesy requires that peasants take off their hats to nobil-

1ty,” for example, and they urge and accept other proposi-

tions of that sort. For a time this practice has the character of

taboo: the rules are just there and are neither questioned nor

varied. But then, perhaps slowly, all this changes. Everyone

develops a complex “interpretive” attitude toward the rules

of courtesy, an attitude that has two components. The first is

the assumption that the practice of courtesy does not simply

exist but has value, that it serves some interest or purpose or

enforces some principle—in short, that it has some point—

that can be stated independently of just describing the rules

that make up the practice. The second 1s the further as-

sumption that the requirements of courtesy—the behavior it

calls for or judgments it warrants—are not necessarily or ex-

clusively what they have always been taken to be but are in-

stead sensitive to its point, so that the strict rules must be

understood or applied or extended or modified or qualified

or limited by that point. Once this interpretive attitude

takes hold, the institution of courtesy ceases to be mechani-

cal; it 1s no longer unstudied deference to a runic order. Peo-

ple now try to impose meaning on the institution—to see it in

its best light—and then to restructure it in the light of that

meaning.

The two components of the interpretive attitude are inde-

pendent of one another; we can take up the first component

of the attitude toward some institution without also taking

up the second. We do that in the case of games and contests.

We appeal to the point of these practices in arguing about

how their rules should be changed, but not (except in very

limited cases)' about what their rules now are; that is fixed
