STATUTES

314

matically right, but because no one can properly answer any

question except by relying at the deepest level on what he

himself believes.

Before I develop that general description of how judges

should interpret statutes under law as integrity, however, I

must first consider an important objection to it, and the ar-

gument this objection provokes will occupy us for many

pages. “Hercules’ method 1gnores the important principle,

firmly rooted in our legal practice, that statutes should be

read, not according to what judges believe would make them

best, but according to what the legislators who actually

adopted them intended. Suppose Hercules decides, after

taking into account everything his interpretive method com-

mends, that the act is a better piece of legislation if it is un-

derstood not to give the secretary the power to halt almost

completed and very expensive projects. The congressmen

who enacted it may have intended to give the secretary ex-

actly that power. In those circumstances our legal practice,

supported by democratic principles, 1nsists that Hercules

defer to their intention, not to his own different view.”

It is true that in American legal practice, judges con-

stantly refer to the various statements congressmen and

other legislators make, in committee reports or formal de-

bates, about the purpose of an act. Judges say these state-

ments, taken together, form the “legislative history” of the

act, which they must respect. We may, however, take two

rather different views of this practice of deferring to legisla-

tive history. One is Hercules’ view. He treats the various

statements that make up the legislative history as political

acts that his interpretation of the statute must fit and ex-

plain, just as it must fit and explain the text of the statute

itself. The other is the view presupposed by the objection I

just described. It treats these statements not as events im-

portant in themselves, but as evidence of the mental states of

the particular legislators who made them, presumed to be

representative of the mental states of the majority of legisla-

tors whose votes created the statute.
