2938

THE COMMON LAW

compensate the less talented beyond what the market awards

13

them.

Now we must make a new distinction among these famil-

1ar conceptions of equality. Some are competitive with the

private ambitions people might pursue in the use of their

property, in the following way. Imagine that government

has succeeded in designing the best available property

scheme on each of these conceptions and then leaves each

citizen free to use or exchange property assigned to him

under that scheme in whatever way he wishes, free from any

responsibility to show equal regard for the interests of all. In

the case of some, but not all, of the conceptions we listed, the

result is likely to undermine the form of equality the scheme

originally secured. This is inevitably true of both equality of

welfare and material equality. Some citizens will achieve

more welfare or add more to their wealth through their de-

cisions and trades than others, so initial equality in either

welfare or wealth will be corrupted. It is likely though not in-

evitable that the utilitaritan conception of equality would

also be undermined. A government of marvelous skill and

knowledge might design a scheme such that the choices peo-

ple actually make, free to favor themselves, will in fact max-

imize average utility. But when tastes and attachments

change, their choices will no longer have that result, and

changes in the scheme, through further redistribution or dif-

ferent regulatory rules, will become necessary to restore the

utilitarian results initially achieved. In that sense these three

theories—welfare equality, material equality, and utilitari-

anism—all make private choice competitive with public re-

sponsibility, so their supporters have difhiculty in answering

the question I posed, why government should not enforce

some general legal principle requiring people to avoid pri-

vate decisions that will disturb the existing distribution of

welfare or wealth. They can solve this problem only by

showing what seems implausible, that the form of equality

they favor can be achieved more constantly and securely

without such a principle than with it.'*
