o1

JURISPRUDENCE REVISITED

“progressive” minority. Paradigms are broken, and new

paradigms emerge. These are the several elements of our new

picture of adjudication in cross-section and over time. The

old plain-fact picture of Chapter 1 told us not to take the

opinions judges write in hard cases at face value; the new

picture has the signal merit of allowing us once again to be-

lieve what our judges say.

CONCEPTS AND CONCEPTIONS OF LAW

Legal philosophers are in the same situation as philosophers

of justice and the philosopher of courtesy we imagined. They

cannot produce useful semantic theories of law. They cannot

expose the common criteria or ground rules lawyers follow

for pinning legal labels onto facts, for there are no such rules.

General theories of law, like general theories of courtesy and

justice, must be abstract because they aim to interpret the

main point and structure of legal practice, not some particu-

lar part or department of it. But for all their abstraction,

they are constructive interpretations: they try to show legal

practice as a whole 1n its best light, to achieve equilibrium

between legal practice as they find it and the best justifica-

tion of that practice. So no firm line divides jurisprudence

from adjudication or any other aspect of legal practice.

Legal philosophers debate about the general part, the inter-

pretive foundation any legal argument must have. We may

turn that coin over. Any practical legal argument, no matter

how detailed and limited, assumes the kind of abstract foun-

dation jurisprudence offers, and when rival foundations

compete, a legal argument assumes one and rejects others.

So any judge’s opinion 1is itself a piece of legal philosophy,

even when the philosophy is hidden and the visible argu-

ment 1s dominated by citation and lists of facts. Jurispru-

dence 1s the general part of adjudication, silent prologue to

any decision at law.

Law cannot flourish as an interpretive enterprise in any
