THE CONSTITUTION

395

licenses to drive or practice medicine to people with certain

physical or mental abilities. Educational opportunities in

universities and professional schools, in particular, have al-

ways and without constitutional challenge been awarded in

flat violation of the supposed principle. Candidates are cho-

sen on the basis of tests that are thought to reveal differences

in natural ability, and in many schools they are also chosen

to promote geographical balance in classes or even the

school’s athletic success. Candidates are no more responsible

for their ability to score well on conventional intelligence

tests or for their place of birth or skill at football than for

their race; if race were a banned category because people

cannot choose their race, then intelligence, geographical

background, and physical ability would have to be banned

categories as well. Racial discrimination that disadvantages

blacks 1s unjust, not because people cannot choose their race,

but because that discrimination expresses prejudice. Its in-

justice is explained, that is, by the banned sources theory,

not the banned categories theory.

Suppose Bakke’s lawyers argue that the banned categories

strategy must be accepted for race (and perhaps for certain

other special cases like ethnic background and sex as well)

even though it cannot be supported by any general principle

that people must never be divided according to properties

they cannot control. They must not say that this special

standing for race and a few other properties is just a matter

of constitutional fact, that the Constitution picks out and

disqualifies race and these other properties alone. For that

begs the question: the correct interpretation of our constitu-

tional practice is exactly what is now in issue, and they need

an argument that justifies their claim about what the Con-

stitution means, not an argument that begins in that claim.

Suppose they say: the framers of the equal protection clause

had race particularly in mind because the Fourteenth

Amendment followed and was provoked by slavery and the

Civil War. This is historicism, and all our former arguments

against it are in point. But it is a particularly feeble form of
