CONVENTIONALISM

8L

a consensus that the Constitution 1s the fundamental law, for

example, he might argue that this consensus provides an ab-

stract convention whose i1mplicit extension includes the

proposition that statutes must be enforced because the best

interpretation of the Constitution requires this, even though

many lawyers deny it. He could then proceed as before to

argue from that intermediate proposition to some concrete

conclusion about snail darters.

Suppose there is not even consensus that the Constitution

1s fundamental law. The soft conventionalist could search

for a more abstract consensus yet. Suppose, for example, that

the suggestion I made in Chapter 3 1s sound: that there 1s

widespread if tacit agreement that the ultimate point of law

1s to license and justify state coercion of individuals and

groups. The soft conventionalist could find 1n that exceed-

ingly abstract consensus a convention that judges must fol-

low whatever conception of law best justifies coercion, and

he could then argue, via the route of declaring some concep-

tion best on that standard, that this abstract convention ac-

tually includes, within its implicit extension, the proposition

that precedent cases must be followed when there i1s no dif-

ference in moral principle between the facts presented in the

precedents and those in the present case. He then announces,

only somewhat out of breath, that the law guarantees com-

pensation to Mrs. McLoughlin, whatever anyone else might

think. Other lawyers and judges who were equally soft con-

ventionalists would disagree. They would have a different

view about which more concrete conception provided the

best justification of coercion, and so would have a different

view of the implicit extension of the abstract convention in

question.

I hope it 1s now apparent that soft conventionalism 1s not

really a form of conventionalism at all in the spirit of the tri-

partite distinction among conceptions we are now using. My

initial descriptions of conventionalism, 1n the last chapter

and earlier in this one, did not fit it, as we can now see; they

fit only strict conventionalism. It is, rather, a very abstract,
