THE COMMON LAW

—

KR

eral knowledge of how much most people dislike or would be

frustrated by the injury I will inflict on them. But we do

have sufficient general knowledge of that sort to make the

principle of comparative financial harm workable enough 1n

most such cases.

Even so, we must qualify that principle in another and

much more important way. For in some circumstances it

would obviously be unfair to measure the importance of

some loss or damage by asking only whether the victim

would and could pay more to avoid that loss than others col-

lectively would pay to do what threatens to produce it. We

must, to see why, notice something more about the general

scheme of equality of resources. I said it presumes that

equality 1s preserved and protected through market transac-

tions but that this is subject to qualifications. I have already

said that the assumption must be qualified to take account

of differences in talent. It must also be qualified to take ac-

count of individual rights. Under equality of resources, peo-

ple have rights that protect fundamental interests, including

those that rational people would insure against damage if in-

surance were available to everyone on equal and economi-

cally eflicient terms. They also have rights securing each

person’s independence from other people’s prejudices and

dislikes which, if these were allowed to influence market

transactions, would defeat rather than advance the goal of

making distribution sensitive to the true costs of people’s

choices. I have discussed these two kinds of rights at length

elsewhere,'” but even this brief description shows why recog-

nizing these rights would displace the market-simulating

model in certain dramatic cases. Suppose, for example, that

my child’s life depends on a noisy ambulance that annoys a

large number of people who would collectively pay more not

to be annoyed than all the funds I have. Or suppose I am

black, and my neighbors would together pay more for me

not to burn leaves in my yard than I could or would pay to

burn them, simply because they hate the sight of me. These

are not, of course, the only kinds of occasions when the
