STATUTES

334

something, namely whether her opinion about snail darters

1s consistent with her more general opinions about reason-

able government. She does not think them inconsistent. So if

he ignores her specific opinion about the snail darter, he re-

places her opinion about consistency with his own, and that

1s exactly what judges should not do.

But this objection repeats the fallacy we have now noticed

several times. A judge must ultimately rely on his own opin-

1ons in developing and applying a theory about how to read

a statute. He cannot, without circularity, remit any part of

that task to the legislature whose enactments he will use his

theory to understand. Hermes has reached the point in his

argument when he must decide under which circumstances

a legislator’s various convictions should be understood to

conflict and, when they do, which convictions he should pre-

fer. He cannot remit that question to the legislators whose

convictions these are. For his question 1s whether their opin-

ions conflict, not whether they think they do, and this is a

question he must answer for himself. He knows, of course,

that his opinion about which of Smith’s convictions are in-

consistent is itself controversial, that different judges would

make that decision differently. But that is inevitable and no

more to be avoided here than in deciding the other issues we

already noticed, about who counts, for example, as a legisla-

tor. His own political convictions, which these various ques-

tions engage, are the only ones he has.

So Hermes has no option but to study Smith’s convictions

in a more general and interpretive way—noticing how she

votes and what she says on other occasions about matters

that seem far removed from the conservation of species—in

order to see which decision 1n the snail darter case best re-

spects her convictions as a set or system. He may end by dis-

regarding what he knows to be her specific opinion about the

snail darter. Of course the evidence he needs for this inter-

pretive project will be furnished mainly by her votes and

statements, her legislative record or history over the course of

her career or, if her opinions seem to have changed, her re-
