CONVENTIONALISM

3e

between arguments about and arguments within the rules. If

a world chess congress were convened to reconsider the rules

for future tournaments, arguments would be made in that

congress that would clearly be out of order within a game of

chess. And vice versa. Perhaps chess would be more exciting

and interesting if the rules were changed to allow the king to

move two spaces once a game. But no one who thought so

would treat the suggestion as an argument that the king can

now, as the rules stand, move two steps once a game. Law-

yers, on the other hand, often call for changing even settled

practice in midgame. Some of the earliest arguments that

legislative intentions count were made to judges in the

course of lawsuits. Important changes in the doctrine of

precedent were also made in midgame: judges were per-

suaded or persuaded themselves that they were not in fact

bound by court decisions their predecessors had taken as

binding. Or—what comes to the same thing—judges

changed their minds about what aspects or features of past

decisions they were required to follow. Once again these

changes, though dramatic over time, were changes within

judicial practice, in response to shifting assumptions about

the point of precedent and of judicial decision more gen-

erally. They were not the result of special agreements to have

a new set of conventions.

This argument does not prove that absolutely nothing is

settled among American or British lawyers as a matter of

genuine convention. Perhaps no political argument could

persuade American judges to reject the proposition that

Congress must be elected in the manner prescribed by the

Constitution, as amended from time to time in accordance

with its own amending provisions. Perhaps all judges do ac-

cept the authority of the Constitution as a matter of conven-

tion rather than as the upshot of sound political theory. But

we can safely draw two conclusions from our discussion.

First, nothing need be settled as a matter of convention in

order for a legal system not only to exist but to flourish. The

interpretive attitude needs paradigms to function effectively,
