PREFACE

1B

—

to be hunted by reason and imagination. Some critics have

thought I meant that in these cases one answer could be

foved right to the satisfaction of everyone, even though I in-

sisted from the start that this 1s not what I meant, that the

question whether we can have reason to think an answer

right 1s different from the question whether it can be demon-

strated to be right. In this book I argue that the critics fail to

understand what the controversy about right answers 1is

rcally about—what 1t must be about 1f the skeptical thesis,

that there are no right answers, is to count as any argument

against the theory of law I defend. I claim the controversy is

rcally about morality, not metaphysics, and the no-right-

answer thesis, understood as a moral claim, 1s deeply unper-

suasive 1n morality as well as in law.

I have not tried generally to compare my views with those

of other legal and political philosophers, either classical or

contemporary, or to point out how far I have been in-

(luenced by or have drawn from their work. Nor is this book

a survey of recent ideas in jurisprudence. I do discuss at

lcngth several fashionable views in legal theory, including

“soft” legal positivism, the economic analysis of law, the crit-

ical legal studies movement, and the “passive” and “framers’

intention’’ theories of American constitutional law. I discuss

these, however, because their claims fall across the argument

| am making, and I entirely neglect many legal philosophers

whose work 1s of equal or greater importance.

I'rank Kermode, Sheldon Leader, Roy McLees, and John

()akley each read a draft of a substantial part of the book

and offered extensive comments. Their help was invaluable:

cach saved me from serious mistakes, contributed important

cxamples, saw issues that had eluded me, and made me

rethink certain arguments. Jeremy Waldron read and im-

proved Chapter 6, and Tom Grey did that for Chapter 2

Most of the notes, though not the long textual ones, were

prepared by Willlam Ewald, William Riesman, and, espe-

cially, Roy McLees; any value the book has as a source
