STATUTES

RS

—

means to communicate by a vote, we must take as primary

the mental states of particular people because institutions do

not have minds, and then we must worry about how to con-

solidate individual intentions into a collective, fictitious

group intention. But Hermes abandoned the search for

mental states when he decided that a legislator’s pertinent

intention 1s a matter of his overall convictions, organized by

constructive interpretation, not his particular hopes or ex-

pectations or discrete concrete opinions. Constructive inter-

pretation can be directed to the record of institutions and

practices as well as individuals, and Hermes has no reason

not to attribute convictions directly to the legislature itself.

So Hermes has two strategies to compare. He can build a

legislative “intention” iIn two steps, by interpreting the

record of individual legislators to discover the convictions

that would justify what each has done, and then by combin-

ing these individual convictions into an overall institutional

conviction. Or in one step, by interpreting the record of the

legislature itself to discover the convictions that would jus-

tify what i1t has done. He will choose the second of these

strategies, for the following reason. If he chooses the first, he

needs a formula for combining individual convictions into a

group intention, and that formula must respect his reasons

for looking to a legislator’s general structure of convictions

rather than to a legislator’s hopes or expectations or concrete

opinions most directly in point. His reasons are reasons of in-

tegrity; he looks to general convictions because legislation in

a community of principle should be understood so far as

possible to express a coherent scheme of principle. So the

formula he needs for the first strategy is this: he should com-

bine individual convictions in whatever manner will provide

the most plausible set of convictions to attribute to the legis-

lature as a whole acting as the servant of a community of

principle. But that means that the first (implausible and un-

manageable) strategy would fail unless 1t somehow reached

the same result the second reaches directly. The combina-

torial problem that seemed so daunting has now become a
