LAW BEYOND LAW

407

pure integrity. It consists in the principles of justice that offer

the best justification of the present law seen from the per-

spective of no institution in particular and thus abstracting

from all the constraints of fairness and process that inclusive

integrity requires. This purified interpretation speaks, not to

the distinct duties of judges or legislators or any other politi-

cal body or institution, but directly to the community per-

sonified. It declares how the community’s practices must be

reformed to serve more coherently and comprehensively a

vision of social justice it has partly adopted, but 1t does not

declare which officer has which office in that grand project.

Present law gropes toward pure law when modes of deci-

sion appear that scem to satisty fairness and process and

bring law closer to its own ambition; lawyers declare opti-

mism about this process when they say that law works itself

pure. The optimism may be misplaced. A skeptical story

seems better to some critics of our law: they predict the tri-

umph of entropy instead, of law losing its overall substantive

coherence in the chaos produced by selfish and disparate

concentrations of political power. Which attitude—pessi-

mism or optimism—is wise and which foolish? That depends

on energy and imagination as much as foresight, for each at-

titude, 1f popular enough, contributes to its own vindication.

LAW’S DREAMS

The courts are the capitals of law’s empire, and judges are its

princes, but not its seers and prophets. It falls to philoso-

phers, if they are willing, to work out law’s ambitions for it-

sclf, the purer form of law within and beyond the law we

have. We found in the common law of accident a conception

of equality which, if allowed to run freely across the Ameri-

can political and economic structure, to its natural limits,

would require dramatic changes in the distribution of prop-

erty and other resources generally. We can find other foot-
