R ke

THE COMMON LAW

and if it does not, the farmer will lose profits of only $1,000.

Now the community is richer on the whole if the train speeds

and the crops are burned. So it appears that someone anx-

lous to improve community wealth would lay down dif-

ferent rules of liability for the two cases. He would make

the train company liable for the damage 1n the first case so

that the train would slow down, and would require the far-

mer to bear the loss in the second so that it would not slow

down.

But under a certain further assumption about the eco-

nomic facts it would, surprisingly, make no difference to

community wealth which rule the lawmaker chose in either

case.* This is the assumption that (in the language of econo-

mists) transaction costs between the train company and the

farmer are zero, meaning that it would cost neither party

anything to negotiate a private agreement changing the re-

sults of whatever rule the legislator lays down. If transaction

costs are zero, and the train company is liable for the dam-

age in Case 2, then the train will still speed and will produce

all the wealth for the community it would have if it were not

liable. It will still speed because the train company will offer

the farmer some sum between $1,000 and $1,100 not to plant

crops near the tracks (or not to sue for loss if he does), and

the farmer will accept some such offer. They strike that bar-

gain because 1t benefits them both: the train company saves

the difference between what it offers and the $1,100 1t would

lose if it slowed the train, and the farmer gains the difference

between that sum and the $1,000 he would make from

planting the corn. Similarly, in Case 1, if the legislator leaves

the loss on the farmer instead of making the train company

liable, the crops will still be planted and the community will

be just as rich as if he took the opposite decision. For now

the farmer will offer the train company some sum between

$1,000 and $1,100 to slow the train, and the company will

accept some such offer because it will gain the difference be-

tween the offer and the $1,000 it forfeits by slowing the train.
