38

WHAT IS LAW?

any case, how can the pretense work? Would 1t not be easy

for the disappointed party to demonstrate that there really

was no law according to the grounds everyone knows are the

right grounds? And if the pretense is so easily exposed, why

bother with the charade? Nor is there any evidence in our

sample cases that any of the lawyers or judges actually be-

lieved what this defense attributes to them. Many of their

arguments would be entirely inappropriate as arguments for

either the repair or the improvement of law; they make sense

only as arguments about what judges must do 1n virtue of

their responsibility to enforce the law as it 1s. It seems odd to

describe Gray or Burger as bent on reform or improvement,

for example, for each conceded that what he took to be the

law was open to serious objections of fairness or wisdom.

They argued that the statute in question had to be inter-

preted in a certain way in spite of its evident defects so inter-

preted.

But once the positivist concedes that Gray was trying to

state what the law was rather than what it should be, he

must also concede that Gray’s views about the grounds of

law were controversial even within his own court. Earl’s rival

position must also be understood as a claim about what the

law requires—a claim that Gray was wrong—not a disguised

maneuver to repair or revise the law. In McLoughlin the

judges of the Court of Appeal did seem to think that since

the precedents were limited to emotional injury at the scene

of an accident, there was no law either way on emotional in-

jury away from the scene, and that their task was therefore

one of repair, of developing the law in the best way, all

things considered. But that was not the view of the House of

Lords, and very much not the view of Lord Scarman, who

thought he was bound by principles embedded in the prece-

dents. For all we know, Lord Scarman agreed with the

judges of the Court of Appeal that the community would be

made worse off on the whole by allowing recovery in those

circumstances. The various judges who adjudicated Mrs.
