WHAT IS LAW?

)

of fact, for example. It 1s important how judges decide

whether a workman has a legal right to damages when a fel-

low employee drops a wrench on his foot, but 1t is also im-

portant how a judge or a jury decides whether the workman

(as his employer claims) dropped the wrench on his own foot

instead. Nor do I discuss the practical politics of adjudica-

tion, the compromises judges must sometimes accept, stating

the law in a somewhat different way than they think most

accurate in order to attract the votes of other judges, for in-

stance. I am concerned with the issue of law, not with the

reasons judges may have for tempering their statements of

what it 1s. My project is narrow in a different way as well. It

centers on formal adjudication, on judges in black robes, but

these are not the only or even the most important actors in

the legal drama. A more complete study of legal practice

would attend to legislators, policemen, district attorneys,

welfare ofhicers, school board chairmen, a great variety of

other officials, and to people like bankers and managers and

union officers, who are not called public officials but whose

decisions also affect the legal rights of their fellow citizens.

Some critics will be anxious to say at this point that our

project 1s not only partial in these various ways but wrong,

that we will misunderstand legal process if we pay special

attention to lawyers’ doctrinal arguments about what the

law is. They say these arguments obscure—perhaps they aim

to obscure—the important social function of law as ideologi-

cal force and witness. A proper understanding of law as a so-

cial phenomenon demands, these critics say, a more

scientific or sociological or historical approach that pays no

or little attention to jurisprudential puzzles over the correct

characterization of legal argument. We should pursue, they

think, very different questions, like these: How far, and in

what way, are judges influenced by class consciousness or

economic circumstance? Did the judicial decisions of nine-

teenth-century America play an important part in forming

the distinctive American version of capitalism? Or were

those decisions only mirrors reflecting change and conflict,
