Vil

PREFACE

excavates its foundations in a more general politics of integ-

rity, community, and fraternity. It tracks its consequences

for abstract legal theory and then for a series of concrete

cases arising under the common law, statutes, and the Con-

91010 o0

I use several arguments, devices, and examples that I have

used before, though in each case in different and, I hope,

improved form. That repetition 1s deliberate: it allows many

discussions and examples to be briefer here, since readers

who wish to pursue them in greater detail, beyond the level

necessary for this book’s argument, may consult the refer-

ences I provide to fuller treatment. (Many of these longer

discussions are available in A Matter of Principle, Cambridge,

Mass., and London, 1985.) This book touches, as any general

book on legal theory must, on a number of intricate and

much-studied issues in general philosophy. I have not

wanted to interrupt the general argument by any excursion

into these 1ssues, and so I have, whenever possible, taken

them up in long textual notes. I have also used long notes for

extended discussions of certain arguments particular legal

scholars have made.

I have made no effort to discover how far this book alters

or replaces positions I defended in earlier work. It might be

helpful to notice in advance, however, how it treats two po-

sittons that have been much commented upon. In Taking

Rughts Seriously 1 offered arguments against legal positivism

that emphasized the phenomenology of adjudication: I said

that judges characteristically feel an obligation to give what

I call “gravitational force” to past decisions, and that this

felt obligation contradicts the positivist’s doctrine of judicial

discretion. The present book, particularly in Chapter 4, em-

phasizes the interpretive rather than the phenomenological

defects of positivism, but these are, at bottom, the same fail-

ures. I have also argued for many years against the positi-

vist’s claim that there cannot be *“right” answers to con-

troversial legal questions, but only “different” answers; I

have insisted that in most hard cases there are right answers
