THE CONSTITUTION

k!

only posed by noticing that the framers did not themselves

think that their clause outlawed racially segregated schools.

He must still retrieve their more abstract convictions by ask-

ing what conception of treating people as equals they are

best understood as having laid down. He might try to do this

for each of the framers one by one, by studying their perti-

nent writings and statements, 1f there are any, and their

votes on other 1ssues. But once again he would do better to

look directly to the overall structure of the post-Civil War

amendments they created together, seen as part of the more

general constitutional system they left in place, and to ask

what principles of equality are necessary to justify that

structure. Only when he has identified and refined these

principles can he sensibly decide whether, in his opinion, the

framers’ concrete opinion about segregation 1s consistent

with their more abstract convictions about equality. If he

decides they are not, his vow of fidelity would require him to

ignore them. His historicism i1s subverted; he 1s led steadily

away from relying exclusively on what the framers thought

about that particular issue.

History, Fairness, and Integrity

We might find a stronger case for historicism by supposing

that the historicist rejects any form of the speaker’s meaning

theory and follows Hercules’ very different method of read-

ing statutes. He regards the statements about racial segrega-

tion 1n the original legislative debates not as clues to

convictions or inner mental states but as political events, and

he has some political theory that makes the constitutional

story better when the Constitution is read exactly as these

statements declare. But what political theory would justify

that bizarre conclusion? It 1s easy to find bad political argu-

ments that would plainly be inadequate. The historicist

might say that the historical statements of the framers must

be decisive because the Constitution i1s law and the content

of law is settled by the publicly declared intentions of its au-
