INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

63

izens of courtesy for example. Or that it means discovering

the purposes of the community that houses the practice,

concelved as itself having some form of mental life or group

consciousness. The first of these suggestions seems more at-

tractive because less mysterious. But 1t is ruled out by the in-

ternal structure of an argumentative social practice, because

it 1s a feature of such practices that an interpretive claim is

not just a claim about what other interpreters think. Social

practices are composed, of course, of individual acts. Many

of these acts aim at communication and so invite the ques-

tion, “What did he mean by that?” or “Why did he say it

just then?” If one person in the community of courtesy tells

another that the institution requires taking off one’s hat to

superiors, it makes perfect sense to ask these questions, and

answering them would mean trying to understand him in

the familiar way of conversational interpretation. But a so-

cial practice creates and assumes a crucial distinction be-

tween interpreting the acts and thoughts of participants one

by one, in that way, and interpreting the practice itself, that

is, interpreting what they do collectively. It assumes that

distinction because the claims and arguments participants

make, licensed and encouraged by the practice, are about

what 2t means, not what they mean.

That distinction would be unimportant for practical pur-

poses 1f the participants in a practice always agreed about

the best interpretation of it. But they do not agree, at least in

detail, when the interpretive attitude is lively. They must, to

be sure, agree about a great deal in order to share a social

practice. They must share a vocabulary: they must have in

mind much the same thing when they mention hats or re-

quirements. They must understand the world in sufficiently

similar ways and have interests and convictions sufficiently

similar to recognize the sense in each other’s claims, to treat

these as claims rather than just noises. That means not just

using the same dictionary, but sharing what Wittgenstein

called a form of life sufficiently concrete so that the one can

recognize sense and purpose in what the other says and does,
