THE CONSTITUTION

Ll

practice official racial segregation, just because this was once

acceptable to those in power throughout the nation, no mat-

ter what most people in most states now think?

We paid more attention in the last chapter to a different

argument for taking legislative declarations into account, at

least when these were made in a formal way. This is the ar-

gument from integrity in the political process, that these

declarations are part of a community’s political record and

that the political story appears in a better light when stat-

utes and (we may now add) constitutions are read to con-

form with formal declarations of purpose and conviction.

But we noticed how sensitive this argument 1s to time. It

could not be weaker than it i1s in the present context, when

the declarations were made not just in different political cir-

cumstances but to and for an entirely different form of politi-

cal life. It would be silly to take the opinions of those who

first voted on the Fourteenth Amendment as reporting the

public morality of the United States a century later, when

the racial issue had been transformed 1n almost every way. It

would also be perverse; it would deny that community the

power to change its public sense of purpose, which means

denying that it can have public purposes at all.

Stability

We should stop foisting bad arguments on the historicist and

try to construct the best one we can. This is, I believe, an ar-

gument very like the main argument we considered for con-

ventionalism as a general conception of law.'® “Law serves

its community best when it is as precise and stable as possible,

and this is particularly true of foundational, constitutional

law. That provides a general reason for tying the interpreta-

tion of statutes and of a constitution to some historical fact

that is at least in principle discoverable and immune from

shifting convictions and alliances. The historical-author test

satisfies this condition better than any alternative. In 1its

stronger version, which permits no interpretation of a con-
