202

INTEGRITY IN LAW

of the grounds of law—the circumstances under which

claims about what the law 1s should be accepted as true or

sound—that shows why law licenses coercion. Law as integ-

rity replies that the grounds of law lie in integrity, in the best

constructive interpretation of past legal decisions, and that

law 1s therefore sensitive to justice in the way Hercules recog-

nizes. So there is no way Hercules can report his conclusion

about Mrs. McLoughlin’s case except to say that the law, as

he understands it, 1s in her favor. If he said what the critic

recommends, that she has no legal right to win but has a

moral right that he proposes to honor, he would be misstating

his view of the matter. He would think that a true account of

some situations—if he found the law too immoral to enforce,

for example—but not of this one. A critic might disagree

with Hercules at many levels. He might reject law as integ-

rity in favor of conventionalism or pragmatism or some

other conception of law. Or he might accept it but reach dif-

ferent conclusions from Hercules because he holds different

1deas about the necessary requirements of fit, or different

convictions about fairness or justice or the relation between

them. But he can regard Hercules’ use of “law” as fraudulent

(or grammatically wrong) only 1f he sufters from the seman-

tic sting, only if he assumes that claims of law are some-

how out of order when they are not drawn directly from

some set of factual criteria for law every competent lawyer

accepts.

One aspect of the present objection, however, might be

thought immune from my arguments against the rest. Even

1f we agree that Hercules’ conclusions about Mrs. McLough-

lin are properly presented as conclusions of law, it might

seem extravagant to claim that these conclusions in any way

follow from integrity understood as a distinct political ideal.

Would it not be more accurate to say that integrity is at

work in Hercules’ calculations just up to the point at which

he has rejected all interpretations that fail the threshold test

of fit, but that integrity plays no part in selecting among

those that survive that test? Should we not say that his con-
