112

JURISPRUDENCE REVISITED

our law? The conceptions of law we shall study are answers

to that question.

Now we can reply to the objection that opened this discus-

sion. Conceptions of law, which are theories about the

grounds of law, commit us to no particular or concrete

claims about how citizens should behave or judges should

decide cases. It remains open to anyone to say that though

the law 1s for Elmer or Mrs. McLoughlin or the snail darter,

the circumstances of these cases are special in some way such

that the judge should not enforce the law. When we are for

some reason anxious to remind ourselves of this feature of

our concept of law, we say that the law 1s one thing and what

judges should do about 1t quite another; this accounts, I

think, for the immediate appeal of the positivist’s slogan.

But it wildly overstates this point to insist, as the positivists

did, that theories about the grounds of law cannot be politi-

cal at all, that they must leave entirely open the question

how judges should decide actual cases. For a theory about

grounds, which in itself takes up no controversial position

about the force of law, must nevertheless be political in a

more general and diffuse way. It does not declare what a

judge should do in any particular case; but unless it is a

deeply skeptical conception it must be understood as saying

what judges should do in principle, unless circumstances are

special in the way just noticed. Otherwise we could not treat

the theory as an interpretation of law, as a conception of our

concept. It would be an orphan of scholasticism, a theory

whose only use is to furnish memory tests for students who

match slogans like “law is the command of the sovereign” to

the philosopher whose motto that was. Jurisprudence has

been too much like that for too long.

It is worth noticing, finally, how this process of abstrac-

tion, which permits legal philosophers to debate about the

grounds of law, abstracting from its force, also permits politi-

cal philosophers to argue in the other direction, about the

force of law even though they differ among themselves to

some degree about its grounds. Theories of civil disobedi-
