WHAT IS LAW?

KN

debate among those who are drawn to its basic idea. What

does the ‘“acceptance” of a rule of recognition consist in?

Many officials of Nazi Germany obeyed Hitler’s commands

as law, but only out of fear. Does that mean they accepted a

rule of recognition entitling him to make law? If so, then the

difference between Hart’s theory and Austin’s becomes elu-

sive, because there would then be no difference between a

group of people accepting a rule of recognition and simply

falling into a self-conscious pattern of obedience out of fear.

If not, if acceptance requires more than mere obedience,

then 1t seems to follow that there was no law in Naz1 Ger-

many, that no propositions of law were true there or in many

other places where most people would say there i1s law,

though bad or unpopular law. And then Hart’s theory

would not, after all, capture how all lawyers use the word

“law.” Scholars have worried about this and other aspects of

Hart’s theory, but once again his root idea, that the truth of

propositions of law 1s in some important way dependent

upon conventional patterns of recognizing law, has attracted

wide support.

Other Semantic Theories

Positivist theories are not unchallenged 1n the classical liter-

ature of jurisprudence; I should mention two other groups of

theories generally counted as their rivals. The first i1s usually

called the school of natural law, though the various theories

grouped under that title are remarkably different from one

another, and the name suits none of them.>* If we treat these

as semantic theories (in Chapter 3 I describe a better way to

understand them), they have this iIn common: they argue

that lawyers follow criteria that are not entirely factual, but

at least to some extent moral, for deciding which proposi-

tions of law are true. The most extreme theory of this kind

insists that law and justice are i1dentical, so that no unjust

proposition of law can be true. This extreme theory is very

implausible as a semantic theory because lawyers often
