200

INTEGRITY IN LAW

already considered, that an interpretation is better if it fits

what past judges said as well as did, and even that weaker

claim depends on the special arguments of political morality

I described. The critic supposes that these special reasons are

not only strong but commanding; that they are so powerful

that a judge always does wrong even to consider an interpre-

tation that does not meet the standard they set, no matter

how well that interpretation ties together, explains, and jus-

tifies past decisions.

So Hercules’ critic, 1f his argument 1s to have any power, is

not relying on politically neutral interpretive convictions

after all. He, too, has engaged his own background convic-

tions of political morality. He thinks the political values that

support his interpretive style are of such fundamental impor-

tance as to eliminate any competing commands of justice al-

together. That may be a plausible position, but it i1s hardly

uncontroversial and 1s i1n no sense neutral. His difference

with Hercules is not, as he first suggested, about whether po-

litical morality is relevant in deciding what the law is, but

about which principles of morality are sound and therefore

decisive of that issue. So the first, crude objection, that Her-

cules has substituted his own political convictions for the po-

litically neutral correct interpretation of the past law, is an

album of confusions.

Hercules Is a Fraud

The second objection is more sophisticated. Now the critic

says, ‘It 1s absurd to suppose that there is any single correct

interpretation of the emotional injury cases. Since we have

discovered two interpretations of these cases, neither of

which can be preferred to the other on ‘neutral’ grounds of

fit, no judge would be forced by the adjudicative principle of

integrity to accept either. Hercules has chosen one on frankly

political grounds; his choice reflects only his own political

morality. He has no choice in the circumstances but to legis-

late in that way. Nevertheless it is fraudulent for him to
