THE CONSTITUTION

380

issues. His own convictions about justice or wise policy are

constrained in his overall interpretive judgment, not only by

the text of the statute but also by a variety of considerations

of fairness and integrity. He will continue to use this strategy

in his new position, but since the Constitution is a very un-

usual statute he will work out a special application of the

strategy for constitutional cases. He will develop his strategy

for statutes into a working theory of constitutional adjudica-

tion.

The Constitution is different from ordinary statutes in one

striking way. The Constitution 1s foundational of other law,

so Hercules’ interpretation of the document as a whole, and

of 1ts abstract clauses, must be foundational as well. It must

fit and justify the most basic arrangements of political power

in the community, which means 1t must be a justification

drawn from the most philosophical reaches of political the-

ory. Lawyers are always philosophers, because jurisprudence

is part of any lawyer’s account of what the law is, even when

the jurisprudence i1s undistinguished and mechanical. In

constitutional theory philosophy is closer to the surface of

the argument and, if the theory is good, explicit in it.

It 1s high time to repeat one of the cautions I offered ear-

lier, however. Hercules serves our purpose because he is free

to concentrate on the issues of principle that, according to

law as integrity, constitute the constitutional law he admin-

isters. He need not worry about the press of time and docket,

and he has no trouble, as any mortal judge inevitably does,

in finding language and argument sufhciently discriminat-

ing to bring whatever qualifications he senses are necessary

into even his initial characterizations of the law. Nor, we

may now add, is he worried about a further practical prob-

lem that i1s particularly serious i1n constitutional cases. An

actual justice must sometimes adjust what he believes to be

right as a matter of principle, and therefore as a matter of

law, in order to gain the votes of other justices and to make

their joint decision sufliciently acceptable to the community

so that it can continue to act in the spirit of a commu-
