424

NOTES TO PAGES 66-73

P

ative interpretation more generally, see Dworkin, “Law as Inter-

pretation,” in The Politics of Interpretation 287 (W. J. T. Mitchell

ed., Chicago, 1983); S. Fish, “Working on the Chain Gang: Inter-

pretation in Law and Literature,” 60 7Texas Law Review 973

(1982); Dworkin, “My Reply to Stanley Fish (and Walter Benn

Michaels): Please Don’t Talk about Objectivity Any More,” in

The Politics of Interpretation, at 287; S. Fish, “Wrong Again,” 62

Texas Law Review 299 (1983). The Dworkin articles are reprinted,

though the second is altered and abbreviated, in 4 Matter of Princi-

ple chaps. 6 and 7.

17. We might summarize these three stages in the observation

that interpretation seeks to establish an equilibrium between the

preinterpretive account of a social practice and a suitable justifi-

cation of that practice. I borrow “equilibrium” from Rawls, but

this account of interpretation is different from his account of rea-

soning about justice. He contemplates equilibrium between what

he calls “intuitions” about justice and a formal theory uniting

these intuitions. See John Rawls, 4 Theory of Justice 20-21, 48-50

(Cambridge, Mass., 1971). Interpretation of a social practice seeks

equilibrium between the justification of the practice and its post-

interpretive requirements.

18. For an important attempt to provide “defining features” of

a legal system, see Joseph Raz, The Concept of a Legal System (2nd

ed., Oxford, 1980).

19. See Derek Parfit’s excellent Reasons and Persons (Oxford,

1984) on the identity of communities and—more controver-

sially—personal 1dentity.

20. Justice and other higher-order moral concepts are interpre-

tive concepts, but they are much more complex and interesting

than courtesy, and also less useful as an analogy to law. The most

important difference between justice and courtesy, in this context,

lies 1n the latent global rcach of the former. People in my imagi-

nary community use “courtesy’ to report their interpretations of a

practice they understand as local to them. They know that the

best interpretation of their own practice would not necessarily be

the best of the comparable practice of any other community. But

1f we take justice to be an interpretive concept, we must treat dif-

ferent people’s conceptions of justice, while inevitably developed

as Interpretations of practices in which they themselves partici-

pate, as claiming a more global or transcendental authority so
