INTEGRITY

ReR

RN

main on the plane of justice as I have defined it. For in the

circumstances of ordinary politics the checkerboard strategy

will prevent instances of injustice that would otherwise

occur, and we cannot say that justice requires not eliminat-

Ing any injustice unless we can eliminate all.

Suppose we can rescue only some prisoners of tyranny;

justice hardly requires rescuing none even when only luck,

not any principle, will decide whom we save and whom we

lcave to torture. Rejecting a checkerboard solution seems

perverse in the same way when the alternative will be the

general triumph of the principle we oppose. The internal

compromise would have rescued some, chosen arbitrarily,

from an injustice that others will be left to suffer, but the al-

ternative would have been to rescue none. Someone may

now say: nevertheless, though checkerboard solutions may

be desirable for that reason on some occasions, we do better

to reject their use out of hand 1n advance, because we have

reason to think that in the long run more discrete injustice

will be created than avoided through these solutions. But

that would be a plausible prediction only for members of a

constant and self-conscious majority of opinion, and if such

a majority existed so would a self-conscious minority that

would have the opposite opinion. So we have no hope of

finding here a common reason for rejecting checkerboard so-

lutions.

But perhaps we are looking in the wrong direction. Per-

haps our common reason 1s not any prediction about the

number of cases of injustice that the checkerboard strategy

would produce or prevent, but our conviction that no one

should actively engage in producing what he believes to be

injustice. We might say: no checkerboard statute could be

cnacted unless a majority of the legislators voted for provi-

sions they thought unjust. But this objection begs the main

question. If each member of the legislature who votes for a

checkerboard compromise does so not because he himself has

no principles but because he wants to give the maximum

possible effect to the principles he thinks right, then how has
