THE CONSTITUTION

392

other local officials. They demanded severe changes in

school organization and set out detailed schedules for these

changes; they constructed programs for busing black chil-

dren to schools in white neighborhoods and vice versa. At no

time in American history have their decisions seemed so dif-

ferent from the normal work of judges or attracted so much

hostility from public and press. Some scholars, including sev-

eral who approved, said their decisions marked an important

change in the nature and character of the judicial office.** In

one way these scholars were right. Judges have traditionally

exercised supervisory roles ancillary to adjudication—in ad-

ministering bankruptcy proceedings, for example, or anti-

trust or custody decrees. But the scale and detail of

supervision were much greater in desegregation decrees and

brought judges more firmly into the conventional domains

of elected executive officers.

But under law as integrity this unusual judicial trespass

on administrative functions is only the consequence, in

highly special and seismic circumstances, of a perfectly tra-

ditional view of the judicial office. Hercules’ thesis is at least

plausible, that judges have a duty to enforce constitutional

rights up to the point at which enforcement ceases to be in

the interests of those the rights are supposed to protect, and

this thesis provides an eligible and attractive interpretation

of past constitutional practice. Its more dramatic applica-

tions in the race cases, like busing orders, can of course be

challenged as mistaken applications, and this challenge will

seem plausible to some lawyers at two levels. They think the

Supreme Court and lower federal courts went too far in rec-

ognizing a constitutional right to an integrated education in

states that had not segregated by law, and that many of the

remedies the courts ordered in support of these rights, in-

cluding busing, were not in blacks’ interests after all. We

must be careful to distinguish these dubious challenges to

recent applications of Hercules’ thesis from a challenge to

the thesis itself.
