INTEGRITY

201

anyone else’s. Armies may be fraternal organizations if that

condition 1s met. But caste systems that count some members

as inherently less worthy than others are not fraternal and

yleld no communal responsibilities.

We must be careful to distinguish, then, between a “bare”

community, a community that meets the genetic or geo-

graphical or other historical conditions identified by social

practice as capable of constituting a fraternal community,

and a “true” community, a bare community whose practices

of group responsibility meet the four conditions just identi-

fied. The responsibilities a true community deploys are spe-

cial and individualized and display a pervasive mutual

concern that fits a plausible conception of equal concern.

These are not psychological conditions. Though a group

will rarely meet or long sustain them unless its members by

and large actually feel some emotional bond with one an-

other, the conditions do not themselves demand this. The

concern they require is an Interpretive property of the

group’s practices of asserting and acknowledging responsi-

bilities—these must be practices that people with the right

level of concern would adopt—not a psychological property

of some fixed number of the actual members. So, contrary to

the assumption that seemed to argue against assimilating

political to associative obligations, associative communities

can be larger and more anonymous than they could be if it

were a necessary condition that each member love all others,

or even that they know them or know who they are.

Nor does anything in the four conditions contradict our

initial premise that obligations of fraternity need not be fully

voluntary. If the conditions are met, people in the bare com-

munity have the obligations of a true community whether or

not they want them, though of course the conditions will not

be met unless most members recognize and honor these obli-

gations. It is therefore essential to insist that true commu-

nities must be bare communities as well. People cannot be

made involuntary “honorary” members of a community to
