INTEGRITY

194

standing political organization, then he has an obligation to

bear the burdens of that organization as well, including an

obligation to accept its political decisions, whether or not he

has solicited these benefits or has in any more active way

consented to these burdens. This argument avoids the fan-

tasy of the argument from consent and the universality and

other defects of the argument from a natural duty of justice

and might therefore seem a stronger rival to my suggestion

that legitimacy 1s best grounded in integrity. But it is vul-

nerable to two counterarguments that have frequently been

noticed. First, the fair play argument assumes that people

can incur obligations simply by receiving what they do not

seek and would reject if they had the chance. This seems un-

reasonable. Suppose a philosopher broadcasts a stunning

and valuable lecture from a sound truck. Do all those who

hear it—even all those who enjoy and profit by it—owe him

a lecture fee?!”

Second, the fair play argument is ambiguous in a crucial

respect. In what sense does it suppose that people benefit

from political organization? The most natural answer 1s this:

someone benefits from a political organization 1f his overall

situation—his “welfare”” in the way economists use that

phrase—is superior under that organization to what it would

otherwise be. But everything then turns on the benchmark to

be used, on what “otherwise” means, and when we try to

specify the benchmark we reach a dead end. The principle is

plainly too strong—it justifies nothing—if it requires show-

ing that each citizen is better off under the standing political

system than he would be under any other system that might

have developed in its place. For that can never be shown for

all the citizens the principle is meant to embrace. And it 1s

plainly too weak—it 1s too easy to satisty and therefore justi-

fies too much—if it requires showing only that each citizen is

better off under the standing organization than he would be

with no social or political organization at all, that i1s, under a

Hobbesian state of nature.

We can deflect this second objection if we reject the
