CONVENTIONALISM

XY

sure and otherwise plan their affairs accordingly. The con-

ventionalist now has a convincing defense of his bilateralism

against this objection. “Since 1t matters to some extent (and

perhaps a good deal) which rule 1s chosen, we do best to use

convention only to protect decisions that some responsible

political institution has actually taken on the merits and to

not include under that umbrella decisions by default, that is

decisions no one has actually made. If a decision has been

taken about liability for emotional injury one way or the

other, and there can be no controversy what decision that is,

then everyone should have a right that that decision be en-

forced until it is publicly disavowed in the same way. But if

no decision has been taken either way, then the court should

be free to decide on the merits, making the best decision for

the future, though of course taking into account strategic

consistencey.

Conventionalism and Pragmatism

The defense of conventionalism we have now constructed

has two parts: first, that wise adjudication consists in finding

the right balance between predictability and flexibility and,

second, that the right balance i1s secured by judges always

respecting past explicit decisions of political institutions but

not enforcing decisions by default in the way unilateralism

does. The second part seems more vulnerable than the first.

Why does that rather rigid policy secure the right balance,

rather than a more sophisticated policy that could be sensi-

tive to the competing merits of predictability and flexibility

case by case? The second general conception of law I intro-

duced in the last chapter, legal pragmatism, holds that peo-

ple are never entitled to anything but the judicial decision

that 1s, all things considered, best for the community as a

whole, without regard to any past political decision. They

have no right, that 1s, that the collective power of the state be

used for them or not be used against them just in virtue of

what a legislature or another court has decided in the past.
