STATUTES

2y

might be thought to have actually had in mind as he spoke

through his vote.

But In one respect the ordinary legislator—the back-

bencher—is not 1n the position of an ordinary speaker at all.

People who talk to one another in the ordinary way can

choose their words, and so choose words they expect to have

the effect they want. They expect to be understood the way

they hope to be understood. But some people are not in

charge of their own words: a hostage telephoning at gun-

point may very much hope not to be understood the way he

expects to be. Or someone who signs a group letter he cannot

rewrite for the group, or the author of that letter who drafts

it to attract the most signatures possible. Legislators are very

often in that position. A congressman who voted for the En-

dangered Species Act may have regretted that 1t contained

no explicit clause stating that the secretary could not inter-

rupt expensive projects once started, although he did not

have the power or time to have such a clause inserted. In

that case he might well expect that the act would be inter-

preted to realize his worst fears, but he would hope that it

would not be. He is therefore not like someone choosing to

communicate some thought or idea or wish. He occupies a

position intermediate between speaker and hearer. He must

decide what thought the words on the paper before him are

likely to be taken to express and then decide whether he

wishes that message to be sent to the public and its officials,

including judges, given the only realistic alternative of send-

ing no message at all. That change of role 1s important, for

he treats the document, not himself or any other person, as

the author of the message he agrees to send.

Hermes thinks he must decide whether a congressman’s

pertinent intention is a matter of the latter’s hopes or his ex-

pectations when these come apart. Suppose Smith realized

that the Endangered Species Act, as drafted, might be con-

strued to give the secretary power to halt almost completed

projects, hoped that it would not, but expected that it would
