INTEGRITY

189

sure, when people disagree, as inevitably they sometimes

will, about which principles are in fact assumed by the ex-

plicit rules and other standards of their community. But a

community that accepts integrity has a vehicle for organic

change, even if it is not always wholly effective, that it would

not otherwise have at all.

These consequences of integrity are practical. Others are

moral and expressive. We noticed in our 1nitial, cursory dis-

cussion of integrity in the last chapter that many of our

political attitudes, collected in our instinct of group responsi-

bility, assume that we are in some sense the authors of the

political decisions made by our governors, or at least that we

have reason to think of ourselves that way. Kant and Rous-

seau based their conceptions of freedom on this ideal of self-

legislation.'* The ideal needs integrity, however, for a citizen

cannot treat himself as the author of a collection of laws that

are inconsistent in principle, nor can he see that collection as

sponsored by any Rousseauian general will.

The 1deal of self-government has a special aspect that in-

tegrity promotes directly, and noticing this will lead us into

our main discussion of legitimacy and political obligation.

Integrity expands and deepens the role individual citizens

can play in developing the public standards of their commu-

nity because it requires them to treat relations among them-

selves as characteristically, not just spasmodically, governed

by these standards. If people understood formal legislation

as only a matter of negotiated solutions to discrete problems,

with no underlying commitment to any more fundamental

public conception of justice, they would draw a sharp dis-

tinction between two kinds of encounters with fellow citi-

zens: those that fall within and those that fall outside the

scope of some past political decision. Integrity, in contrast,

insists that each citizen must accept demands on him, and

may make demands on others, that share and extend the

moral dimension of any explicit political decisions. Integrity

therefore fuses citizens’ moral and political lives: it asks the

good citizen, deciding how to treat his neighbor when their
