s

WHAT IS LAW?

be the side supporting a decision that is novel in the trivial

sense. So the question of fidelity is the question that de-

mands public discussion and the attention of the watchful

citizen. The most popular opinion, in Britain and the

United States, insists that judges should always, in every de-

cision, follow the law rather than try to improve upon it.

They may not like the law they find—it may require them to

evict a widow on Christmas eve in a snowstorm-—but they

must enforce it nevertheless. Unfortunately, according to

this popular opinion, some judges do not accept that wise

constraint; covertly or even nakedly, they bend the law to

their own purposes or politics. These are the bad judges, the

usurpers, destroyers of democracy.

That 1s the most popular answer to the question of fidel-

ity, but it is not the only one. Some people take the contrary

view, that judges should try to improve the law whenever

they can, that they should always be political in the way the

first answer deplores. The bad judge, on the minority view,

is the rigid “mechanical” judge who enforces the law for

its own sake with no care for the misery or injustice or

inefficiency that follows. The good judge prefers justice

to law.

Both versions of the layman’s view, the ‘“conservative”

and the “progressive,” draw on the academic thesis that law

is a matter of plain fact, but in certain ways the academic

thesis 1s more sophisticated. Most laymen assume that there

is law in the books decisive of every issue that might come

before a judge. The academic version of the plain-fact view

denies this. The law may be silent on the issue in play, it in-

sists, because no past institutional decision speaks to it either

way. Perhaps no competent institution has ever decided

either that workmen can recover for fellow-servant injuries

or that they cannot. Or the law may be silent because the

pertinent institutional decision stipulated only vague guide-

lines by declaring, for example, that a landlord must give

a widow a ‘“‘reasonable” time to pay her rent. In these cir-

cumstances, according to the academic version, no way
