196

INTEGRITY

generically, associative or communal obligations. I mean the

special responsibilities social practice attaches to member-

ship in some biological or social group, like the responsibil-

ities of family or friends or neighbors. Most people think that

they have associative obligations just by belonging to groups

defined by social practice, which 1s not necessarily a matter

of choice or consent, but that they can lose these obligations

if other members of the group do not extend them the bene-

fits of belonging to the group. These common assumptions

about associative responsibilities suggest that political obli-

gation might be counted among them, in which case the two

objections to the argument from fair play would no longer

be pertinent. On the whole, however, philosophers have ig-

nored this possibility, I believe for two reasons. First, com-

munal obligations are widely thought to depend upon

emotional bonds that presuppose that each member of the

group has personal acquaintance of all others; which of

course cannot be true in large political communities. Sec-

ond, the idea of special communal responsibilities holding

within a large, anonymous community smacks of national-

ism, or even racism, both of which have been sources of very

great suffering and injustice.

We should therefore reflect on the character of familiar

assoclative obligations to see how far these apparent objec-

tions actually hold. Associative obligations are complex, and

much less studied by philosophers than the kinds of personal

obligations we incur through discrete promises and other de-

liberate acts. But they are an important part of the moral

landscape: for most people, responsibilities to family and

lovers and friends and union or office colleagues are the most

important, the most consequential obligations of all. The

history of social practice defines the communal groups to

which we belong and the obligations that attach to these. It

defines what a family or a neighborhood or a professional

colleague is, and what one member of these groups or holder

of these titles owes to another. But social practice defines
