JURISPRUDENCE REVISITED

107

That would be a sensible approach to take in these circum-

stances to Siegfried’s problem. We might ask which inter-

pretation of the contract precedents or the discriminatory

statute should be deemed best by someone who, unlike us, is

in general sympathy with the system, who counts it as a

flourishing example of law. We might assume that Siegfried

has that attitude and then ask which interpretation of his

country’s legal practices would put them in what we believe

would be their least bad light.

Now suppose, finally, that our practical problem requires

us to decide not how Siegfried should decide his case, but in-

stead how he probably wil/ decide it. If we assume he will

treat his problem as interpretive, as we would do if a similar

problem arose in our own law, our question remains inter-

pretative rather than descriptive in any simpler sense. But

the premises of our interpretative question have shifted

again. Now we put ourselves more fully in Siegfried’s shoes

and interpret from the point of view of the full set of his po-

litical and social convictions. Our problem can shift in many

other ways as well. We can interest ourselves in the legal

problems not of some contemporary system we consider im-

moral but of an ancient or primitive legal system whose mo-

rality does not concern us. Then we would find it easier to

report our conclusions as straightforward and unqualified

statements about their law. We can at least try to put our-

selves fully in the position of Roman officials, for example,

and then declare our opinion of what Roman law was, with

no temptation to add that because Roman law supported

slavery it was not fully law or not really law at all. We omit

the qualification because nothing in the context of our study

makes it pertinent.

The context shifts again when we find our own law im-

moral or unjustifiable, in whole or in pertinent part. Now

one of the distinctions I mentioned grows in practical impor-

tance. Do our legal practices, though morally infirm, never-

theless generate some weak political or moral rights in those

who have relied on them, so that they should be enforced
