NOTES TO PAGE 84

2N

story they tell, the truth of the belief or conviction, and if an ex-

planation of this sort is accepted, the fact of the belief is 1tself evi-

dence of its truth. If we can explain people’s belief that grass is

green only in some way that assumes that grass i1s green—for ex-

ample, by explaining that they have seen green grass—then, ob-

viously, the common belief is evidence of the fact. But if everyone’s

beliefs about some matter can be explained in some way that does

not presuppose the fact, then the fact of the belief is not evidence

of 1ts truth. We think we can fully explain people’s belief in

witches, for example, by describing their superstitions; our expla-

nation, no matter how far continued, would never appeal to any

actual encounters people have had with witches. If so, then the

fact that some people believe in witches i1s no evidence for their

existence.

Somcone might compose an internally skeptical argument

about morality that begins in that observation. He argues that we

can explain the fact that people hold moral beliefs without as-

suming the existence of special moral facts that have caused these

beliefs. Our moral beliefs, he says, are caused not by encounters

with special facts but by developing within a particular culture;

this explains why people from different cultures hold different

convictions. This plausible causal story, however, so far shows only

that the fact of our moral beliefs 1s no evidence for their soundness,

and that i1s hardly surprising. No one but the most enthusiastic

egotist thinks the fact that he holds a particular moral opinion is

itself an argument for that opinion. In any case, no one should be

much troubled by being forced to abandon that view, for he

abandons at most only one argument for the soundness of his

moral opinions, leaving in place all the arguments he would any-

way be tempted to make. The skeptic must show, not just that our

moral convictions can be fully explained in ways that make no ref-

erence to any causal moral properties in the universe, but that the

form the best explanation of our convictions takes in itself casts

(010101 A A 1000

Under certain circumstances discovering how we came to be-

lieve something does make us doubt 1t, but this is because we dis-

cover something we recognize as a defect in our method of

instruction. If I had learned all my medieval history from a book I

later discover was a work of popular fiction I would doubt every-

thing I thought I knew. But just the bare fact that my moral
