NOTES TO PAGES

432

140-142

(same). See also John W. Johnson, “The Grudging Reception of

Legislative History in U.S. Courts,” 1978 Detroit C.L.. Review 413,

(I owe this reference to William Nelson.)

6. Conventionalism can intelligibly be proposed as an interpre-

tation of legal systems in autocratic or otherwise nondemocratic

countries, because the officials and even the general population of

such countries may sustain conventions that give autocratic power

to a small group or a single tyrant. In that case, if conventionalism

were accepted as the best interpretation, only the edicts of

that group or tyrant would be law. But conventionalism would

have much less appeal in such a society, because it would pro-

vide a less attractive account of why law so constituted justified

coercion. Some divine-right theory or, in a less theistic commun-

ity, a statist or goal-directed explanation would seem better.

So it i1s no accident that positivist theories, the semantic counter-

parts of conventionalism, were first developed and became most

popular in democracies. Bentham’s account of law, which Austin

popularized, seems at first sight a better fit with monarchies or

other communities with a readily identifiable “sovereign.” But

Bentham developed that theory when democratic ideals had

begun to be taken for granted, and the initial appeal of the theory,

at least, was egalitarian. His theory has always been more popular

in Britain and America than anywhere else.

7. One obvious exception is the practice of the Supreme Court

deciding constitutional cases in the United States. The people can

fundamentally alter the practice of the Court only through a con-

stitutional amendment. This does raise special problems for demo-

cratic theory, which are considered in Chapter 10.

8. Only “roughly,” because in some cases, for procedural rea-

sons, the person or institution nominally i the position of the de-

fendant is really the “substantial” plamntfl, that is, the person ask-

ing the state to intervene. So we should say that unilateralism

provides that the substantial defendant must win unless the ex-

plicit extension of some legal convention entitles the substantial

plaintiff to win. Even in this more careful form, unilateralism

offers no recommendation when the distinction between substan-

tial plaintiff and substantial defendant breaks down, as when par-

ties dispute title to property that is not already in the possession of

one or the other or that no one could possess if the courts did not
