JURISPRUDENCE REVISITED

95

question posed by our ‘“‘conceptual” description of law. It

accepts the 1dea of law and legal rights. It argues, in answer

to the second question, that the point of law’s constraint, our

reason for requiring that force be used only in ways consis-

tent with past political decisions, 1s exhausted by the predict-

ability and procedural fairness this constraint supplies,

though as we shall see conventionalists divide about the

exact connection between law and these virtues. It proposes,

in answer to the third question, a sharply restricted account

of the form of consistency we should require with past deci-

sions: a right or responsibility flows from past decisions only

if 1t 1s explicit within them or can be made explicit through

methods or techniques conventionally accepted by the legal

profession as a whole. Political morality, according to con-

ventionalism, requires no further respect for the past, so

when the force of convention is spent judges must find some

wholly forward-looking ground of decision.

Legal pragmatism is, from the point of view of my con-

ceptual suggestion, a skeptical conception of law. It answers

the first question I listed in the negative: it denies that a

community secures any genuine benefit by requiring that

judges’ adjudicative decisions be checked by any supposed

right of litigants to consistency with other political decisions

made 1n the past. It offers a very difterent interpretation of

our legal practice: that judges do and should make whatever

decisions seem to them best for the community’s future, not

counting any form of consistency with the past as valuable

for its own sake. So pragmatists, strictly speaking, reject the

idea of law and legal right deployed in my account of the

concept of law,* though as we shall see, they insist that rea-

sons of strategy require judges sometimes to act “as if”’ peo-

ple have some legal rights.

Like conventionalism, law as integrity accepts law and

legal rights wholeheartedly. It answers the second question,

however, 1n a very different way. It supposes that law’s con-

straints benefit society not just by providing predictability or

procedural fairness, or in some other instrumental way, but
