toXe

INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

proved or tested like physics: he denies that aesthetic or

moral values can be part of what he calls (in one of the

maddening metaphors that seem crucial to any statement

of his view) the “fabric” of the universe. His skepticism is ex-

ternal because disengaged: it claims to leave the actual con-

duct of interpretation untouched by its conclusions. The

external skeptic himself has opinions about Hamlet and slav-

ery and can give reasons for preferring these opinions to

those he rejects. He only insists that all these opinions are

projected upon, not discovered in, “reality.”

There 1s an ancient and flourishing philosophical debate

about whether external skepticism, particularly external

skepticism directed to morality, is a significant theory and, if

it is, whether it is right.** I shall not enter that debate now,

except to consider whether external skepticism, 1f it is sound,

would in any way condemn the belief interpreters commonly

have: that one interpretation of some text or social practice

can be on balance better than others, that there can be a

“right answer” to the question which is best even when 1t is

controversial what the right answer is.” That depends on

how these “objective’ beliefs (as we might call them) should

be understood. Suppose I say that slavery is wrong. I pause,

and then I add a second group of statements: I say that slav-

ery 1s “‘really” or “objectively” wrong, that this is not just a

matter of opinion, that it would be true even if I (and every-

one else) thought otherwise, that it gives the “right answer”

to the question whether slavery is wrong, that the contrary

answer is not just different but mistaken. What is the rela-

tion between my original opinion that slavery is wrong and

these various “objective” judgments I added to it?

Here 1s one suggestion. The objective statements I added

are meant to supply some special kind of evidence for my

original opinion or some justification for my acting on it.

They are meant to suggest that I can prove slavery is wrong

the way I might prove some claim of physics, by arguments

of fact or logic every rational person must accept: by show-

ing that atmospheric moral quaverings confirm my opinion,
