PRAGMATISM AND PERSONIFICATION

o3

disguise these attenuations. He might think 1t best some-

times to pretend that he was enforcing an old and obsolete

statute or a mischievous and silly precedent when he was

really ignoring it. In that case he might offer his decision as a

surprising “interpretation’ of the statute or precedent when

1t 1s really nothing of the kind. A thoroughgoing pragmatist

would regard the question whether and how far to disguise

his actual decision 1n this way as just another strategic ques-

tion. Is the community so anxious that its judges not behave

as pragmatists that this “noble lie”” will help him serve its

true interests better in the long run? Or will the people dis-

cover the lie and then be less ready to accept and be guided

by Ius rulings than if he had been more open from the start?

Chowall e be a worse society if 1t has been deceived, just for

that reason alone, because it 1s never 1n people’s true inter-

csts to lie to them, even if they never discover the lie? This

need not be an all-or-nothing decision: a pragmatist might

make his conception as openly pragmatic as he dares, dis-

gutsing only those clements

his doctrine of obsolescence,

perhaps

that the community 1s not quite ready to accept.

A Case Study: Prospective Rulemaking

So a self-conscious pragmatist might well decide cases in

ways, and even in words, that are familiar to us. He will have

other reasons, quite apart from any strategy of the noble lie,

for falling in with certain familiar practices that he might be

tempted, at first look, to discard. An imaginative pragmatist

judge might be tempted, for example, to divorce the ques-

tion of what rule he should lay down for the future from the

question of how he should decide the case before him. Sup-

pose he notes that Elmer is likely to use the inheritance in

ways that will benefit the community more than any use

Goneril and Regan are likely to make of it. He will invest it

while he is 1n jail, and use it in socially beneficial ways when

he 1s released, while they will spend it on imported luxuries.

Why not achieve a forward-looking coup: preventing future
