INTEGRITY IN LAW

257

example, that political decisions should mainly respect ma-

jority opinion, and yet believe that this requirement relaxes

and even disappears when serious constitutional rights are in

10T 8Te) o0

We should now recall two general observations we made

in constructing the chain-novel model, because they apply

here as well. First, the different aspects or dimensions of a

judge’s working approach—the dimensions of fit and sub-

stance, and of different aspects of substance—are in the last

analysis all responsive to his political judgment. His convic-

tions about fit, as these appear either in his working thresh-

old requirement or analytically later in competition with

substance, are political not mechanical. They express his

commitment to integrity: he believes that an interpretation

that falls below his threshold of fit shows the record of the

community in an irredeemably bad light, because proposing

that interpretation suggests that the community has charac-

teristically dishonored its own principles. When an interpre-

tation meets the threshold, remaining defects of fit may be

compensated, in his overall judgment, if the principles of

that interpretation are particularly attractive, because then

he sets off the community’s infrequent lapses in respecting

these principles against 1ts virtue 1n generally observing

them. The constraint fit imposes on substance, in any work-

ing theory, 1s therefore the constraint of one type of political

conviction on another in the overall judgment which inter-

pretation makes a political record the best i1t can be overall,

everything taken into account. Second, the mode of this

constraint 1s the mode we identified 1in the chain novel. It 1s

not the constraint of external hard fact or of interpersonal

consensus. But rather the structural constraint of different

kinds of principle within a system of principle, and it is none

the less genuine for that.

No mortal judge can or should try to articulate his in-

stinctive working theory so far, or make that theory so con-

crete and detailed, that no further thought will be necessary

case by case. He must treat any general principles or rules of
