INTEGRITY

187

personification we use to define the i1deal. We say that the

state as a whole does wrong In accepting an internal com-

promise because “it” then compromises “its” principles. The

pragmatist will insist that the state is not an entity that can

have principles to compromise. Neither the state nor its gov-

ernment is a person; they are collections of people, and if

none of these separate people has acted in any way inconsis-

tently with his or her own principles, what sense can it make

to say that the state they represent has done this?

The pragmatist who makes this argument tries to build

political responsibility out of ordinary, nonpolitical princi-

ples of morality. He proceeds in the fashion of our first argu-

ment, in Chapter 5, about the responsibility of shareholders

for defective automobiles, applying ordinary principles

about the responsibility of one person for injury to another.

He asks what each legislator might do, in the position he

happens to occupy, to reduce the total number of incidents

of injustice or unfairness according to his own views of what

justice and fairness require. If we follow the pragmatist in

this order of argument—if we begin with individual official

responsibility—we will reach his conclusion because we will

then lack any appropriate explanation of why a vote for a

checkerboard solution i1s wrong, any explanation of why a

particular ofhcial should regard the compromise as a worse

outcome than the outcome he regards as more uniformly

unjust. If, on the other hand, we insist on treating internally

compromised statutes as the acts of a single distinct moral

agent, then we can condemn them as unprincipled, and we

then have a reason for arguing that no official should con-

tribute to his state’s unprincipled acts. In order to defend the

legislative principle of integrity, therefore, we must detend

the general style of argument that takes the community itself

as a moral agent.

Our argument must be drawn from political virtue, not, so

far as this is supposed to be different, from metaphysics. We

must not say that integrity is a special virtue of politics be-

cause the state or community is a distinct entity, but that the
