THE COMMON LAW

287

tographs the book he can sell it for $11. The community is

made richer, according to the economic definition of com-

munity wealth, if the police just take the book from the poor

sick man and give 1t to his rich neighbor, leaving the poor

man with neither book nor medicine. The community is

richer because the book is worth $11 1n the rich man’s hands

and only $5 to the poor man. The community’s aggregate

wealth is increased if the book is taken from the poor man,

even beyond what it would gain 1if the two struck a bargain,

because a forced transfer saves the transaction costs of that

Yt efeYs 18103 o0

This solution would not be part of the practical elaboration

of the thesis that people always have a duty to do whatever

will make the community richer. A statesman anxious to

provide rules of law reflecting that duty would avoid any

rule permitting forced transfers even in circumstances like

these. I assumed that we know the poor man would sell the

book for $5 and the rich man would pay $10. But the best

means of discovering how much people value things is to re-

quire them actually to conclude transactions. Otherwise we

have no good means of testing whether they actually would

do what they say they would. No doubt it costs the commu-

nity more to allow the neighbors to haggle over the exact

price of the book than it does to take the book from the poor

man without wasting the time a bargain would take. But we

gain more In accuracy over the long run by insisting that

people do bargain, in order to make sure that wealth 1s ac-

tually increased by a transfer. So a statesman who thought

people always have a duty to maximize community wealth

would 1nsist that the law refuse to allow forced transfers

when negotiation is possible. Nevertheless our simple argu-

ment against the wealth-maximizing duty stands, because

the argument is meant to show, not that the duty would pro-

duce horrifying results in practice, but that what it recom-

mends, 1f this were feasible, is deeply wrong in principle.

Even if we were certain that the rich man would pay more

than the poor man would charge, so that social wealth
