THE COMMON LAW

SN

why relative cost figures in these moral decisions. According

to that theory we must act as if the concrete rights we cannot

both exercise had not yet been distributed between us, and

we must distribute these ourselves as best we can, in the way

equality of resources commends. If we had time and occasion

and good will enough to work out some compromise—if we

agreed on hours for my trumpet-playing, for example—then

equality might be protected in that way. If compromise is

not possible in the circumstances, however, we must each act

so as to minimize the inequality of the distribution we

achieve, and that means so that the loser loses less. This

principle of comparative harm cries out for elaboration,

however. How shall we measure the relative costs of seizing

or forgoing some opportunity? Our root assumption, that we

are carrying forward a scheme of equality of resources rather

than of utilitarian equality or some other welfarist concep-

tion, rules out some measures. We must not measure com-

parative cost in terms of happiness or satisfaction or some

other dimension of welfare. So we must calculate who would

lose less in these circumstances by comparing financial costs,

not because money is more important than anything else but

because it 1s the most abstract and therefore the best stan-

dard to use in deciding which of us will lose more in re-

sources by each of the decisions we might make.

This poses a problem when the losses In question are not

obviously or immediately financial. Perhaps neither of us

has income at stake when I want to practice and you want to

study. How should I decide whether the principle of com-

parative cost gives me a right to play my trumpet? I should

ask not whether I will have more pleasure from learning my

piece than you will have from mastering your proof, but

whether the damage to my overall plans will be larger than

the damage to yours. Since we both have roughly equal

funds at our disposal, it seems sensible to measure the poten-

tial damage in the way the market simulation test suggests:

by asking whether you would pay more for me to stop play-
