| |

JURISPRUDENCE REVISITED

consciously and as we go along, before we examine these

jurisprudentially, if we ever do. We then find it very difficult

to achieve the distance from our own convictions necessary

to examine these systematically as a whole. We can only in-

spect and reform our settled views the way sailors repair a

boat at sea one plank at a time, in Otto Neurath’s happy

image. We must hold constant certain parts of our attitudes

and convictions about law, as not under present study, in

order to evaluate and refine the rest. We use the distinction

between grounds and force to that end.

Academic tradition enforces a certain division of labor in

thinking about law. Political philosophers consider problems

about the force of law, and academic lawyers and specialists

in jurisprudence study issues about its grounds. Philosophies

of law arc 1n consequence usually unbalanced theories of

law: they arc mainly about the grounds and almost silent

about the force of law. They abstract from the problem of

force, that 1s, in order to study the problem of grounds more

carefully. This is possible only because there is sufhicient

rough agreement about force. We disagree about the exact

force law has 1n certain special circumstances, when there

are strong competing considerations of justice. We disagree,

perhaps, about what the judges in Massachusetts who were

asked to enforce the Fugitive Slave Law before the American

Civil War should have done. But we share a general, unspe-

cific opinion about the force of law when such special consid-

erations of justice are not present, when people disagree

about the justice or wisdom of legislation, for example, but

no one really thinks the law wicked or its authors tyrants.

Our different convictions about the force of law unite in such

cases. We think the law should be obeyed and enforced, and

there would be very little point to treating law as an inter-

pretive concept if we did not. So we can isolate and concen-

trate on the grounds of law by assuming cases that are

“normal” 1n that way. We can ask: given the (roughly

agreed) force of law in normal circumstances, how, exactly,

should 1t be decided when some rule or principle is part of
