INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

81

for example, or that it matches a noumenal metaphysical

fact. If this were the right way to understand my objective

claims, then my claims would assert what external skepti-

cism denies: that moral judgments are descriptions of some

special metaphysical moral realm. But it is not the right way

to understand them. No one who says slavery is ‘“really”

wrong thinks he has thereby given, or even suggested, an ar-

gument why it 1s. (How could quaverings or noumenal enti-

ties provide any argument for moral convictions?) The only

kind of evidence I could have for my view that slavery is

wrong, the only kind of justification I could have for acting

on that view, 1s some substantive moral argument of a kind

the “objective” claims do not even purport to supply.

The actual connection between my original judgment

about slavery and my later “objective” comments is very dif-

ferent. We use the language of objectivity, not to give our or-

dinary moral or interpretive claims a bizarre metaphysical

base, but to repeat them, perhaps in a more precise way, to

emphasize or qualify their content. We use that language, for

example, to distinguish genuine moral (or interpretive or

aesthetic) claims from mere reports of taste. I do not believe

(though some people do) that flavors of ice cream have gen-

uine aesthetic value, so I would say only that I prefer rum

raisin and would not add (though some of them would) that

rum raisin is “really” or “objectively” the best flavor.”® We

also use the language of objectivity to distinguish between

claims meant to hold only for persons with particular beliefs

or connections or needs or interests (perhaps only for the

speaker) and those meant to hold impersonally for everyone.

Suppose I say I must dedicate my life to reducing the threat

of nuclear war. It makes sense to ask whether I think this

duty holds “objectively” for everyone or just for those who

feel, as I do, a special compulsion 1n this issue. I combined

these two uses of objective language in the conversation I

just 1magined about slavery. I said slavery was “real-

ly” wrong, and the rest, to make plain that my opinion

was a moral judgment and that I thought slavery was wrong
