CONVENTIONALISM

KR

ism denies this: a conventionalist judge has no reason for

acknowledging consistency 1n principle as a judicial virtue or

for dissecting ambiguous statutes or inexact precedents to try

to achieve it.

Of course, if conventionalism were just the semantic the-

ory that the phrase “legal rights” should not be used to de-

scribe rights people have in virtue of consistency in principle,

then a conventionalist judge could indeed take a lively inter-

est 1n that form of consistency under a different description.

He could say that when explicit convention runs out, people

have a moral right to what law as integrity claims as their

legal rights. Then he would decide difficult lawsuits exactly

as his integrity-minded brethren do. But we are studying

substantive iterpretations of legal practice, not semantic

theories, and our present interest in conventionalism lies in

its negative claim that convention exhausts the intrinsic

normative power of past decisions. Conventionalism is a the-

ory about pcople’s legal rights in the sense we 1dentified as

cructal for jurisprudence, not a proposal about how “legal”

should be used. Anyone who thinks that consistency in prin-

ciple, and not mercly 1n strategy, must be at the heart of ad-

judication, has rejected conventionalism, whether he realizes

he has or not.

O Rl A O AT A XY IR

So the very feature of our own legal practice that seemed to

make conventionalism a good interpretation of legal prac-

tice—the deep, constant concern judges and lawyers show

about the “correct” reading of statutes and precedents in

hard cases—is actually an embarrassment to that concep-

tion. It provides a near-fatal argument against conventional-

ism as even a decent interpretation of our practice. But I

shall ofter another line of argument against conventionalism,

because exposing each flaw in that conception helps point

our way to a more successful one. The argument just con-

cluded studied legal reasoning in cross-section, the details of
