THE COMMON LAW

.

SASR0

nent in particular cases. But even though that practical elab-

oration would use “objective” standards, it would also be

alert to special circumstances in which the principle of com-

parative financial harm would be likely to i1gnore rights or

otherwise prove unjust. It would insist that liability for cer-

tain kinds of damage—threats to life, for example, and in-

jury flowing from racial prejudice—not be subject to the

straightforward financial tests of that principle.

PRIVATE PEOPLE AND PUBLIC BODIES

We have good reasons, then, drawn from the ambitions of

law as integrity, for preferring the egalitarian to the utilitar-

lan justification of accident law. It 1s much more successful

on the substantive dimensions of interpretation. An inter-

pretation of accident law must deploy a scheme of personal

responsibility, and the utilitarian argument, we discovered,

could not provide a plausible one. The egalitarian argument

does; it supplies a scheme of responsibility that is attractive

in itself and also recognizes the dynamic interaction among

law, public virtue, and private responsibility that i1s one of

the most appealing features of a community of principle.

The egalitarian argument has another feature important

to our argument as a whole: 1t limits the range of market

simulation, not only 1n the various ways we have already

noticed but institutionally as well. The utilitarian argument

provides an ideal that, once accepted, must be sovereign over

legislation as well as adjudication. If a community is more

just whenever 1t i1s happier, and legal rules governing liabil-

1ty for accidents or nuisances contribute most to overall hap-

piness when they make the community richer on the whole

by mimicking hypothetical markets, then whenever Parlia-

ment 1s asked to regulate the speed at which trains may drive

when their sparks risk destroying crops, or whenever the

New York city government must decide when musical in-

struments may be played in apartment buildings or crowded
