THE CONSTITUTION

SRV

a special right as a supplement to the general requirement of

the Fourteenth Amendment, the requirement that any

state’s calculation of the general interest must take into ac-

count the interests of all citizens even though it disadvan-

tages some; it must be in that sense a “rational’ calculation

understood as serving some acceptable conception of how

people are treated as equals. Government violates this more

general requirement whenever it ignores the welfare of some

group In 1ts calculation of what makes the community as a

whole better off. Even though Bakke finds no help in the

special right against racial discrimination Hercules recog-

nizes, he might fall back on the general requirement. Davis

argues that its quota system plausibly contributes to the gen-

eral welfare by helping to increase the number of qualified

black doctors. Bakke might argue to the contrary that

Davis’s quota system prevented it from even attending to the

impact of its admissions decisions on people in his position.

Hercules would decide (I believe) that this claim is confused:

a quota system gives the same consideration to the full class

of applicants as any other system that relies, as all must, on

general classifications.”® But reasonable judges might dis-

27

agree with that part of his overall conclusion in the case.

IS HERCULES A TYRANT?

We have followed Hercules through only one chain of deci-

sions, because here as everywhere in jurisprudence detail is

more 1lluminating than range. But the argument of the pre-

ceding chapters gives some idea of his attitudes to other

28

constitutional issues,

and enough has emerged about his

constitutional methods to justify a minor summary. Her-

cules 1s not a historicist, but neither is his the buccaneer style

sometimes lampooned under the epithet “natural law.” He

does not think that the Constitution is only what the best

theory of abstract justice and fairness would produce by way

of ideal theory. He is guided instead by a sense of constitu-
