THE COMMON LAW

SRS

So under the zero-transaction-cost assumption it makes no

difference to overall community wealth which rule the law-

maker chooses. Of course it makes a considerable difference

to the train company and the farmer which rule he chooses.

If he makes the train company liable in either case, the com-

pany will be poorer and the farmer richer than if he does

not. But that in itself 1s a matter of indifference to the wealth

test. That test 1s concerned with the community’s total

wealth, which is not affected by transfers from one group to

another unless for some special reason these increase or re-

duce the total. You may well wonder, however, about the

practical importance of the point that it makes no difference

to community wealth which rule 1s chosen 1if transaction

costs are zero, because they never are. Even if the farmer has

read law books 1n his leisure time and so has no need to hire

a lawyer to negotiate for him, he could be reading seed cata-

logues instead of pondering whether to offer $1,050 or

$1,075. If transaction costs are sufficiently high, they will

prevent a bargain being made that would improve commu-

nity wealth. Suppose the legislature ordered trains to com-

pensate farmers in circumstances like Case 2, and it would

cost the parties together more than $100 to negotiate an

agreement under which the farmer would not plant crops

near the tracks. That agreement would then not be made—

the transaction costs would more than wipe out at least one

party’s anticipated gain—so the train would not speed and

the community would be poorer overall in consequence.

But the theoretical exercise of imagining that transaction

costs are zero 1s nevertheless important, according to the eco-

nomic interpretation, because it identifies the crucial role

these costs play and yields the following practical advice

about how a legislator who accepts the economic principle

should decide, assuming he must choose between a flat rule

making trains liable for all crops burned by their sparks and

a flat rule denying all such lability. He should choose

whichever rule he thinks will come closer to producing the
