THE CONSTITUTION

13

nity of principle at the constitutional level. We use Hercules

to abstract from these practical issues, as any sound analysis

must, so that we can see the compromises actual justices

think necessary as compromises with the law.

THEORIES OF RACIAL EQUALITY

We are interested now in Hercules’ working theory of those

SNl of the Constitution that declare individual constitu-

tional rights against the state, and 1n particular in his theory

of the equal protection clause. He will begin with the ab-

stract egalitarian 1dea already discussed in Chapter 8. This

holds that government must treat all its citizens as equals in

the following sense: political decisions and arrangements

must display equal concern for the fate of all. In Chapter 8

we considered how a state that respected that abstract

principle should distribute and regulate the use of private

property. We distinguished various conceptions of equal-

ity—Ilibertarian, utilitarian, welfarist, and resource-based

conceptions—each of which supplied a somewhat different

answer to that question. We also noticed a distinction that

we must take up and elaborate here.

We distinguished between the overall, collective strategies

a government uses to secure the general interest as a matter

of policy and the individual rights it recognizes, as a matter

of principle, as trumps over these collective strategies.

Hercules now asks a neglected question of fundamental

importance for constitutional theory. How far does the

Constitution limit the freedom of Congress and the several

states to make their own decisions about issues of policy and

principle? Does the Constitution, properly interpreted, set

out a particular conception of equality that every state must

follow 1n 1ts collective judgments of policy, in its general

scheme of distributing and regulating property, for exam-

ple? If not, does it stipulate, in the name of equality, certain

individual rights every state must respect, as trumps over its
