STATUTES

340

under way, that will suggest a lower level of importance for

the main policy and so will improve the case for the qualifi-

cation about waste. If, on the contrary, the statute under-

scores the importance of the main policy by expressly

accepting sacrifices in other important policies or even prin-

ciples in order to promote the main policy—for example, if

some other section of the act declares that the secretary need

not consider impact on unemployment in making his pro-

tection orders—then this would argue that no qualifying

policy sufhicient to exempt the TVA project can find a place

in the overall interpretation.

Fairness

We shall return to the constraints of integrity. But now we

turn for a moment to fairness. Suppose Hercules 1s devoted

to the preservation of species: he thinks the loss of even one

an immeasurable evil. He thinks it much better to halt the

dam than to lose the snail darter; indeed he would prefer

that huge dams already in existence be dismantled 1f that

would help save the fish. Suppose he 1s satisfied that nothing

in the text of the Endangered Species Act contradicts his

view about the importance of conserving species. The secre-

tary’s power is not explicitly qualified in any way that sug-

gests anything less than a commanding concern with

conservation. It does not follow that Hercules will think that

the best interpretation of the statute, the interpretation that

makes the story of government the best it can be, 1s one that

saves the snail darter. He knows that his own views—he 1s

blunt with himself—are eccentric. Almost no one else shares

them. So he must ask himself whether it is better for legisla-

tors to reach the right result even when their constituents

think it very much the wrong one.

He knows, of course, that the voters can throw a legislator

out of office at the end of his term if the voters disagree with

what he has done. But that is no argument: a wrong 1s not

justified by an opportunity for revenge. Nor does the fate of
