THE CONSTITUTION

371

erly interpreted, does not prohibit capital punishment, then

of course a justice who declared that it is unconstitutional for

states to execute criminals would be changing the Constitu-

tion. But if the Constitution, properly interpreted, does for-

bid capital punishment, a justice who refused to strike down

state statutes providing death penalties would be changing

the Constitution by fiat, usurping authority in defiance of

constitutional principle. The question of law, in other words,

is inescapable. We must understand passivism to declare

that as a matter of law the abstract clauses of the Constitu-

tion grant citizens no rights except concrete rights that flow

uncontroversially from the language of these clauses alone.

Otherwise all its indignation about judicial usurpation, all

its fervor for democracy, is irrelevant to legal practice, a tur-

moll of red herrings.

If strict conventionalism were the best general interpreta-

tion of American legal practice, then that austere view of

constitutional rights would indeed be the correct one. Since

it 1s controversial whether the due process clause or the equal

protection clause prohibits states from making abortion

criminal, for example, and there 1s no consensus even among

constitutional lawyers how that question is to be resolved, a

conventionalist must deny that as a matter of law the Con-

stitution forbids that legislation. So a conventionalist who

sald that the Supreme Court nevertheless should declare an-

tiabortion statutes unconstitutional would indeed be sup-

posing that a nation’s fundamental law should be made by

appointed officials with lifetime tenure, subject to revision

only by the extraordinary majorities required by the amend-

ing process. But that only adds another argument, to those

we noticed in Chapter 4, why conventionalism is a poor 1in-

terpretation of American law; if passivism depends on con-

ventionalism, we have already rejected 1t. Under law as

integrity, controversial constitutional issues call for interpre-

tation, not amendment. Courts and legislatures, officials and

citizens confront these issues under the regulative assump-
