RS INGIOIA NN UNCHE IO

357

Marshall declared. Even those who think he made a mistake

concede that almost two centuries of practice have put his

position beyond challenge as a proposition of law, and the

constitutional wars are now fought on the terrain 1t defines.

The capital question now is not what power the Court has

but how its vast power should be exercised. Should 1t under-

take to enforce the whole Constitution, including those pro-

visions that require almost pure political judgment to

interpret? Should it decide, for example, whether the details

of some state’s own constitutional structure provide the “re-

publican form of government” the federal Constitution de-

mands, or should it leave that to the judgment of Congress

or the state itself? What strategy should the Court use in in-

terpreting and applying the constitutional provisions it does

have authority to enforce? Should it defer in some degree to

the judgment of Congress or a state legislature about

whether some form of punishment, like death, is “cruel and

unusual’ within the meaning of the Eighth Amendment or

whether some scheme of racial division 1n education does or

does not provide children the “equal protection” of the

Fourteenth? Should it accept the judgment of these institu-

tions unless it thinks them plainly wrong, or should 1t replace

them whenever it would have preferred a different decision?

In either case, what test should it use to decide which deci-

sions are plainly wrong, or wrong on balance?

LIBERALS AND CONSERVATIVES

Popular imagination sorts justices into camps according to

the answers they are thought to give to questions like these.

[t deems some justices “liberal” and others “conservative”

and on the whole seems to prefer the latter. The ground of

this distinction, however, 1s famously elusive, and one famil-

lar reading has contributed to the lamentable character of

the public debate. People say that conservative justices obey

the Constitution while liberal ones try to reform it according

to their personal convictions. We know the fallacy in that
