INTEGRITY

191

Every conception therefore faces the same threshold prob-

lem. How can anything provide even that general form of jus-

tification for coercion in ordinary politics? What can ever

give anyone the kind of authorized power over another that

politics supposes governors have over the governed? Why

does the fact that a majority elects a particular regime, for

example, give that regime legitimate power over those who

voted against 1t?

This 1s the classical problem of the legitimacy of coercive

power. It rides on the back of another classical problem: that

of political obligation. Do citizens have genuine moral obli-

gations just in virtue of law? Does the fact that a legislature

has enacted some requirement 1in itself give citizens a moral

as well as a practical reason to obey? Does that moral reason

hold even for those citizens who disapprove of the legislation

or think it wrong in principle? If citizens do not have moral

obligations of that character, then the state’s warrant for

coercion 1s seriously, perhaps fatally, undermined. These two

1ssues—whether the state is morally legitimate, 1n the sense

that 1t 1s justified in using force against its citizens, and

whether the state’s decisions impose genuine obligations on

them—are not 1dentical. No state should enforce all of a citi-

zen’s obligations. But though obligation 1s not a sufficient

condition for coercion, it is close to a necessary one. A state

may have good grounds in some special circumstances for

coercing those who have no duty to obey. But no general pol-

icy of upholding the law with steel could be justified if the

law were not, in general, a source of genuine obligations.

A state 1s legitimate if 1ts constitutional structure and

practices are such that its citizens have a general obligation

to obey political decisions that purport to impose duties on

them. An argument for legitimacy need only provide reasons

for that general situation. It need not show that a govern-

ment, legitimate in that sense, therefore has moral authority

to do anything it wants to its citizens, or that they are obli-

gated to obey every decision it makes. I shall argue that a

state that accepts integrity as a political i1deal has a better
