P

PRAGMATISM AND PERSONIFICATION

_—

of the early ‘“realist” movement I mentioned earlier: why

they said there 1s no such thing as law, that law is only a

matter of predicting what judges will do. These supposedly

extreme propositions are much better understood as provoc-

ative statements of a political position than as semantic

claims. I do not say this in any triumphant way. The fact

that a true pragmatist rejects the idea of legal rights is not a

decisive argument against that conception. For it is not self-

evident that the idea of legal rights is attractive. Or even

Sane.

On the contrary, it is quite easy to make that idea seem

foolish. The pragmatist will pay whatever attention to the

past is required by good strategy. He accepts as-1f legal rights

in that spirit and for reasons of strategy will make mostly the

same decisions a conventionalist would make when statutes

are plain or precedents crisp and decisive. He will reject

what a conventionalist accepts as law only in special cases,

when a statute is old and out-of-date, for example, or when a

line of precedent is widely regarded as unfair or inefhicient,

and it 1s difficult to see what of value is then lost. He rejects,

it 1s true, the very idea of consistency in principle as impor-

tant for

iR

own sake. He denies that the

decision

190

McLoughlin should turn on whether any distinction in prin-

ciple can be found between the case of emotional injury suf-

fered at the scene of an accident and the same kind of injury

suffered later. But why should it? He knows that mothers

who suffer such damage at the scene will continue to receive

compensation unless and until the legislature decides other-

wise. But if he believes this a matter for regret, if he believes

the decisions that established that “right” were either unjust

or inefhicient or both, he sees no reason why he should extend

the principle underlying these decisions any further than

other judges already have.

He acknowledges that if he finds against Mrs. McLough-

lin the law of emotional injury will then be incoherent in

principle. But he counts that no disadvantage; he denies that

this is, 1n itself; a matter of injustice. If he thinks recovery for
