214

WHAT IS LAW?

great weight to its own past decisions, more than it gives to

past decisions of courts lower in the British hierarchy, and

much more than it gives to decisions of American courts.

Differences of opinion about the character of the strict

doctrine and the force of the relaxed doctrine explain why

some lawsuits are controversial. Different judges in the same

case disagree about whether they are obliged to follow some

past decision on exactly the question of law they now face.

That was not, however, the nerve of controversy in Mc¢Lough-

lin. Whatever view lawyers take of the character and force of

precedent, the doctrine applies only to past decisions sufh-

ciently like the present case to be, as lawyers say, “in point.”

Sometimes one side argues that certain past decisions are

very much in point, but the other side replies that these de-

cisions are ‘‘distinguishable,” meaning they are different

from the present case in some way that exempts them from

the doctrine. The judge before whom Mrs. McLoughlin first

brought her suit, the trial judge, decided that the precedents

her lawyer cited, about others who had recovered compen-

sation for emotional injury suffered when they saw accident

victims, were distinguishable because in all those cases the

shock had occurred at the scene of the accident while she was

shocked some two hours later and in a difterent place. Of

course not every difference in the facts of two cases makes the

earlier one distinguishable: no one could think it mattered if

Mrs. McLoughlin was younger than the plaintiffs in the ear-

lier cases.

The trial judge thought that suffering injury away from

the scene was an important difference because i1t meant that

Mrs. McLoughlin’s injury was not “foreseeable” in the way

that the injury to the other plaintiffs had been. Judges in

both Britain and America follow the common law principle

that people who act carelessly are liable only for reasonably

foreseeable injuries to others, injuries a reasonable person

would anticipate if he reflected on the matter. The tral

judge was bound by the doctrine of precedent to recognize

that emotional injury to close relatives at the scene of an ac-
