INTEGRITY IN LAW

A

S

-

ter light than ever before.'’ Hercules will confront this issuc

as a special question of political morality. The political his-

tory of the community 1s pro tanto a better history, he thinks,

if it shows judges making plain to their public, through their

opinions, the path that later judges guided by integrity will

follow and if 1t shows judges making decisions that give voice

as well as effect to convictions about morality that are wide-

spread through the community. Judicial opinions formally

announced in law reports, moreover, are themselves acts of

the community personified that, particularly if recent, must

be taken into the embrace of integrity.'' These are among

his reasons for somewhat preferring an interpretation that is

not too novel, not too far divorced from what past judges

and other officials said as well as did. But he must set these

reasons against his more substantive political convictions

about the relative moral value of the two interpretations,

and if he believes that interpretation (6) 1s much superior

from that perspective, he will think he makes the legal record

better overall by selecting it even at the cost of the more pro-

cedural values. Fitting what judges did is more important

than fitting what they said.

Now suppose an even more unpatterned record. Hercules

finds that unlimited liability has been enforced against a

number of professions but has not been enforced against a

roughly equal number of others, that no principle can ex-

plain the distinction, that judicial rhetoric is as split as the

actual decisions, and that this split extends into other kinds

of actions for economic damage. He might expand his field

of survey still further, and the picture might change if he

does. But let us suppose he is satisfied that it will not. He will

then decide that the question of fit can play no more useful

role in his deliberations even on the second dimension. He

must now emphasize the more plainly substantive aspects of

that dimension: he must decide which interpretation shows

the legal record to be the best it can be from the standpoint

of substantive political morality. He will compose and com-
