INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

N

unrecognized, in legal practice. They produce and debate

semantic theories of law.

Unfortunately for these theories, this picture of what

makes disagreement possible fits badly with the kinds of dis-

agreements lawyers actually have. It is consistent with law-

yers and judges disagreeing about historical or social facts,

about what words are to be found in the text of some statute

or what the facts were in some precedent judicial decision.

But much disagreement in law is theoretical rather than em-

pirical. Legal philosophers who think there must be common

rules try to explain away the theoretical disagreement. They

say that lawyers and judges are only pretending or that they

disagree only because the case before them falls in some gray

or borderline area of the common rules. In either case (they

say) we do better to ignore the words judges use and to treat

them as disagreeing about fidelity or repair, not about law.

There 1s the sting: we are marked as its target by too crude a

picture of what disagreement is or must be like.

AN IMAGINARY EXAMPLE

The Interpretive Attitude

Perhaps this picture of what makes disagreement possible is

too crude to capture any disagreement, even one about

books. But I shall argue only that it is not exhaustive and, in

particular, that 1t does not hold in an important set of cir-

cumstances that includes theoretical argument in law. It

does not hold when members of particular communities who

share practices and traditions make and dispute claims

about the best interpretation of these—when they disagree,

that i1s, about what some tradition or practice actually re-

quires In concrete circumstances. These claims are often

controversial, and the disagreement i1s genuine even though

people use different criteria in forming or framing these in-

terpretations; 1t 1s genuine because the competing interpre-

tations are directed toward the same objects or events of

interpretation. I shall try to show how this model helps us to
