STATUTES

315

I shall call this the “speaker’s meaning” view because it

assumes that legislation is an occasion or instance of commu-

nication and that judges look to legislative history when a

statute 1s not clear on 1its face to discover what state of mind

the legislators tried to communicate through their votes. It

supposes, in short, that proper interpretation of a statute

must be what I called in Chapter 2 conversational rather

than constructive interpretation. The ruling model of this

theory 1s the familiar model of ordinary speech. When a

(riend says something, we may ask, “What did he mean by

that?” and think that our answer to that question describes

something about his state of mind when he spoke, some idea

he meant to communicate to us in speaking as he did. Witt-

gensteln and other philosophers warn us against a crude

misunderstanding of this picture. Having a thought and

choosing words to represent that thought are not two sepa-

rate activities. Nor are people free to mean anything they

like by the words they use, so the question, “What did he

mean by those words?” is not purely the question of what he

had in mind when he spoke. But the picture serves well

cnough as a rough description of how we conceive the prob-

lem of understanding someone who has spoken ambigu-

ously, and the speaker’s meaning theory proposes that we use

the same picture for ambiguous or unclear legislation.

[f someone accepts the speaker’s meaning view, his theory

about how to read statutes will have a particular structure.

e will present his conclusions as statements about the in-

tention of the statute itself. Is it the purpose or intention of

the Endangered Species Act to give the secretary a certain

power? But he regards the intention of the statute as a theo-

rcetical construction, a compendious statement of the discrete

mtentions of particular actual people, because only these can

actually have conversational intentions of the sort he has in

mind. So his theory of statutes must answer the following set

ol questions. Which historical people count as the legisla-

tors? How are their intentions to be discovered? When these

mtentions differ somewhat from one to another, how are
