WHAT IS LAW?

I

course aware that theoretical disagreement 1s problematic,

that 1t 1s not immediately clear what kind of disagreement it

1s. But most of them have settled on what we shall soon see is

an evasion rather than an answer. They say that theoretical

disagreement 1s an illusion, that lawyers and judges all ac-

tually agree about the grounds of law. I shall call this the

“plain fact” view of the grounds of law; here is a preliminary

statement of its main claims. The law is only a matter of

what legal institutions, like legislatures and city councils and

courts, have decided in the past. If some body of that sort has

decided that workmen can recover compensation for injuries

by fellow workmen, then that is the law. If it has decided the

other way, then that 1s the law. So questions of law can al-

ways be answered by looking in the books where the records

of institutional decisions are kept. Of course it takes special

training to know where to look and how to understand the

arcane vocabulary in which the decisions are written. The

layman does not have this training or vocabulary, but law-

yers do, and it therefore cannot be controversial among them

whether the law allows compensation for fellow-servant in-

juries, for example, unless some of them have made an em-

pirical mistake about what actually was decided 1n the past.

“Law exists as a plain fact, in other words, and what the law

1s in no way depends on what it should be. Why then do law-

yers and judges sometimes appear to be having a theoretical

disagreement about the law? Because when they appear to

be disagreeing in the theoretical way about what the law is,

they are really disagreeing about what it should be. Their

disagreement is really over issues of morality and fidelity,

not law.”

The popularity of this view among legal theorists helps

explain why laymen, when they think about courts, are more

concerned with fidelity to law than with what law 1s. If

judges divide in some great case, and their disagreement

cannot be over any question of law because law is a matter of

plain fact easily settled among knowledgeable lawyers, one

side must be disobeying or ignoring the law, and this must
