PRAGMATISM AND PERSONIFICATION

157

cided whether people who accept a check they have reason

to believe is forged can nevertheless collect on 1t. The legisla-

ture has never had occasion to speak on this matter, and the

issue has never come to court. But it 1s clear enough to any-

one dealing in checks who thinks about the matter that it is

in the public interest to deny collection i1n those circum-

stances. If someone who 1s offered an obviously forged check

believes that if the issue 1s litigated a court will lay down a

rule denying recovery for the future and apply that rule

against him, he will not take the check in the first instance,

and society will have the benefit of the better rule without

actually paying the costs of litigation or incurring the disad-

vantages of bad commercial practice before the case 1s liti-

IRIERLS

The Old Hurdle

It suddenly appears that pragmatism, so far from fitting our

legal practices worse than conventionalism does, fits them

better. We tested conventionalism against two perspectives

on our practice: i cross-section, as an account of what par-

ticular judges do about particular cases, and over time, as a

story about how legal culture develops and changes as a

whole. Conventionalism failed from the latter perspective.

Its picture of law as a matter of conventions—as a game with

holes between the rules—gives a most distorted account of

how settled practices come to be questioned and changed.

Pragmatism tells a more promising story. It points out that

strategies for pursuing the general interest that seem obvious

in one generation will come to be questioned 1n another, and

so will be changed naturally, from within the judicial pro-

cess, not outside 1t. Conventionalism also failed on the first

perspective. It could not explain the most prominent feature

of adjudication in hard cases like our samples: the constant

and relentless concern judges show for explicating the “true”

force of a statute or precedent decision when that force is
