200

INTEGRITY

cussion just concluded echoes our first discussion, in Chap-

ter 3, about the kinds of conflict citizens and judges might

discover between the law of their community and more

abstract justice. We used, there, much the same structure

and many of the same distinctions to disentangle the moral

and legal issues posed by law in wicked places. That echo

supports our present hypothesis that political obligation—

including an obligation to obey the law—is a form of

assoclative obligation. Our study of conflict within associa-

tive obligation 1s important, too, in responding to an objec-

tion to that hypothesis I noticed briefly earlier. The

objection complains that treating political obligation as as-

sociative supports the more unattractive aspects of national-

1sm, including its strident approval of war for national

self-interest. We can now reply that the best interpretation of

our own political practices disavows that feature, which is

anyway no longer explicitly endorsed even by bare practice.

When and where it 1s endorsed any conflict between militant

nationalism and standards of justice must be resolved in

favor of the latter. Neither of these claims threatens the more

wholesome ideals of national community and the special re-

sponsibilities these support, which we are about to consider.

FRATERNITY AND POLITICAL COMMUNITY

We are at last able to consider our hypothesis directly: that

the best defense of political legitimacy—the right of a politi-

cal community to treat its members as having obligations in

virtue of collective community decisions—is to be found not

in the hard terrain of contracts or duties of justice or obliga-

tions of fair play that might hold among strangers, where

philosophers have hoped to find it, but in the more fertile

ground of fraternity, community, and their attendant obli-

gations. Political association, like family and friendship and

other forms of association more local and intimate, is in itself

pregnant of obligation. It 1s no objection to that claim that
