INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

49

rather than to individuals for individual achievement. If re-

spect of the former sort no longer seems important, or even

seems wrong, then a different interpretation of the practice

will become necessary. People will come to see the point of

courtesy as almost the converse of its original point, in the

value of impersonal forms of social relation that, because of

their impersonality, neither require nor deny any greater sig-

nificance. Courtesy will then occupy a different and dimin-

ished place 1n social life, and the end of the story is in sight:

the interpretive attitude will languish, and the practice will

lapse back into the static and mechanical state in which it

began.

A FIRST LOOK AT INTERPRETATION

That is a birds-eye view from the perspective of history of

how the tradition of courtesy changes over time. We must

now consider the dynamics of transformation from closer in,

by noticing the kinds of judgments and decisions and argu-

ments that produce each individual’s response to the tradi-

tion, the responses that collectively, over long periods,

produce the large changes we first noticed. We need some

account of how the attitude I call interpretive works from

the inside, from the point of view of interpreters. Unfortu-

nately, even a preliminary account will be controversial, for

1f a community uses interpretive concepts at all, the concept

of interpretation itself will be one of them: a theory of inter-

pretation is an interpretation of the higher-order practice of

using interpretive concepts. (So any adequate account of in-

terpretation must hold true of itself.) In this chapter I offer a

theoretical account particularly designed to explain inter-

preting socilal practices and structures like courtesy, and I

defend that account against some fundamental and ap-

parently powerful objections. The discussion will, I fear, take

us far from law, into controversies about interpretation that

have occupied mainly literary scholars, social scientists, and
