INTEGRITY IN LAW

2NN

more detail 1ssues raised in three departments of adjudica-

tion: common-law cases, cases turning on statutes, and cases

of constitutional dimension. But first we will take stock,

though this means some repetition, and then consider cer-

tain objections to the argument so far. Judges who accept

the interpretive ideal of integrity decide hard cases by trying

to find, in some coherent set of principles about people’s

rights and duties, the best constructive interpretation of the

political structure and legal doctrine of their community.

They try to make that complex structure and record the best

these can be. It i1s analytically useful to distinguish different

dimensions or aspects of any working theory. It will include

convictions about both fit and justification. Convictions

about fit will provide a rough threshold requirement that an

interpretation of some part of the law must meet if it 1s to be

eligible at all. Any plausible working theory would disqual-

1fy an interpretation of our own law that denied legislative

competence or supremacy outright or that claimed a general

principle of private law requiring the rich to share their

wealth with the poor. That threshold will eliminate inter-

pretations that some judges would otherwise prefer, so the

brute facts of legal history will in this way limit the role any

judge’s personal convictions of justice can play in his deci-

sions. Different judges will set this threshold differently. But

anyone who accepts law as integrity must accept that the

actual political history of his community will sometimes

check his other political convictions in his overall interpre-

tive judgment. If he does not—if his threshold of fit is wholly

derivative from and adjustable to his convictions of justice,

so that the latter automatically provide an eligible interpre-

tation—then he cannot claim in good faith to be interpret-

ing his legal practice at all. Like the chain novelist whose

judgments of fit automatically adjusted to his substantive

literary opinions, he is acting from bad faith or self-decep-

tion.

Hard cases arise, for any judge, when his threshold test

does not discriminate between two or more interpretations of
