R

WHAT IS LAW?

also debated whether any group could be said to be an Aus-

tinian sovereign in a democracy, like the United States, in

which the people as a whole retain the power to alter the

form of government radically by amending the constitution.

But though Austin’s theory was found defective in various

matters of detail, and many repairs and improvements were

suggested, his main idea, that law i1s a matter of historical

decisions by people in positions of political power, has never

wholly lost its grip on jurisprudence.

The most important and fundamental restatement of that

idea 1s H. L. A. Hart’s book, The Concept of Law, first pub-

lished in 1961.>' Hart rejected Austin’s account of legal au-

thority as a brute fact of habitual command and obedience.

He said that the true grounds of law lie in the acceptance by

the community as a whole of a fundamental master rule (he

called this a “rule of recognition”) that assigns to particular

people or groups the authority to make law. So propositions

of law are true not just in virtue of the commands of people

who are habitually obeyed, but more fundamentally in vir-

tue of social conventions that represent the community’s ac-

ceptance of a scheme of rules empowering such people or

groups to create valid law. For Austin the proposition that

the speed limit in California is 55 is true just because the leg-

islators who enacted that rule happen to be in control there;

for Hart it is true because the people of California have ac-

cepted, and continue to accept, the scheme of authority de-

ployed in the state and national constitutions. For Austin

the proposition that careless drivers are required to compen-

sate mothers who suffer emotional injury at the scene of an

accident is true in Britain because people with political

power have made the judges their lieutenants and tacitly

adopt their commands as their own. For Hart that proposi-

tion is true because the rule of recognition accepted by the

British people makes judges’ declarations law subject to the

powers of other officials—Ilegislators—to repeal that law if

they wish.

Hart’s theory, like Austin’s, has generated a good deal of
