N2

NOTES TO PAGES g5-108

“law” or “authoritative” means under criteria for its application

educated lawyers and laymen all accept. Any plausible argument

must be an argument of political morality or wisdom, an argu-

ment showing why a practical distinction should be made be-

tween those justifications for coercion that are and those that are

not drawn from exclusively factual sources, and why only the for-

mer should be treated as law. I consider such arguments in Chap-

TSN

4. Though 1f I am right, they accept that concept as the right

plateau for argument about the nature of law, and so frame their

theories as skeptical on that plateau: they say, as a way of sum-

marizing their conception, that there is no law.

5. Not every sociologist or political theorist who talks of popu-

lar morality and moral traditions has these relatively simple ideas

in mind. Some mean to use the idea of a cultural mind I men-

tioned in the last chapter; others use an interpretive concept, in

our sense, so that a community’s moral traditions are not just a

matter of the attitudes or beliefs of particular people but of the

best interpretation of these. But it is the simpler, more reductive

idea I mean now to distinguish from the concept of law as just de-

scribed.

6. Hart argues that the choice between a narrow and a wide

concept of law should be made to facilitate moral reflection. See

H. L. A. Hart, The Concept of Law 206-7 (1961). We do better, for

that purpose, to refuse to make the choice at all, as a matter of

linguistic stipulation. See my remarks replying to Hart in Cohen

ed., supra n. 3, at 258-60.

7. For further discussion of the i1ssues discussed 1n the last sev-

eral paragraphs, see Cohen ed., supra n. 3 at 256-60.

4. CONVENTIONALISM

1. The version of conventionalism I am describing here, which 1

later call “strict” conventionalism, may be more complex than the

form in which I state it. For a society may have further legal con-

ventions specifying how judges must decide cases when no law-

making institution has decided the issue in play: for example, a

convention that judges must decide in whatever way they believe

the legislature would if the issue were before it. But a society will

run out of further conventions of this sort at some point, and then
