ok

INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

practices. So my abstract description of the most general aim

of interpretation might well reinforce, for many readers, the

skeptical thesis that it 1s a philosophical mistake to suppose

that interpretations can be right or wrong, true or false.

Internal and External Skepticism

In what remains of this chapter we measure the scope and

force of this skeptical challenge, and we begin with a crucial

distinction: between skepticism within the enterprise of inter-

pretation, as a substantive position about the best interpre-

tation of some practice or work of art, and skepticism outside

and about that enterprise. Suppose someone says that Hamlet

1s best understood as a play exploring obliquity, doubling,

and delay; he argues that the play has more artistic integrity,

that 1t better unites lexical, rhetorical, and narrative themes,

read with these ideas in mind. An “internal” skeptic might

say, “You are wrong. Hamlet 1s too confused and jumbled to

be about anything at all: it 1s an incoherent hotch-potch of a

play.” An “external” skeptic might say, “I agree with you; I

too think this is the most illuminating reading of the play.

Of course, that i1s only an opinion we share; we cannot sensi-

bly suppose that Hamlet’s being about delay is an objective

fact we have discovered locked up in the nature of reality,

‘out there’ in some transcendental metaphysical world where

the meanings of plays subsist.”

These are different forms of skepticism. The internal skep-

tic addresses the substance of the claims he challenges; he

insists it 1s In every way a mistake to say that Hamlet 1s about

delay and ambiguity, a mistake to suppose it is a better play

read that way. Or indeed 1n any other particular way. Not

because no view of what makes a play better can be “really”

right, but because one view s right: the view that a suc-

cessful interpretation must provide the kind of unity he be-

lieves no interpretation of Hamlet can provide. Internal

skepticism, that is, relies on the soundness of a general inter-

pretive attitude to call into question all possible interpreta-
