THE CONSTITUTION

Y

—

tion that ordinarily one interpretation—one view of what

free speech or equal protection or due process actually

requires—provides a better justification of standing consti-

tutional practice than any other: that is, that one interpreta-

tion i1s a better answer to the third question, of law. Of

course, questions of the first kind, enactment questions, are

appropriate in some contexts. Maybe the nation should not

have the Constitution it has; maybe it should not continue

to be governed by the principles that provide the best justifi-

cation of

R

constitutional

so far.

But

1¢0s

history

Constitution is undeniably clear about how these distinct

enactment issues should be decided. They are issues of

amendment, not interpretation, and the Constitution is clear

that amendments may not be enacted except 1n the clumsy

way it prescribes. Perhaps that was itself a mistake. Perhaps,

contrary to what most Americans now think, a contempo-

rary majority should have the power to change fundamental

law, by a referendum, for example. But that 1s not our ques-

tion either.

Can the passivist defend his austere answer to the legal

question in some way other than by appealing to conven-

tionalism? Some passivists rely on skepticism instead. The

best interpretation of the abstract clauses of the Constitu-

tion, they say, even under law as integrity, 1s the skeptical

interpretation that these neither permit nor prohibit any-

thing beyond what follows from the strictest reading of their

language alone. If that were true, then any decision the

Court made about abortion, for example, would be an un-

acknowledged constitutional amendment. Then the enact-

ment issue would be relevant: it might well be better,

because 1t would be somewhat more democratic, for the

Court to accept a state legislature’s view about how the

Constitution should be quietly amended than to impose its

own contrary opinion. But does the passivist have any argu-

ment for his skepticism?

The argument he has in mind 1s familiar enough; we have

met it before. “Someone will think one interpretation of the
