20

WHAT IS LAW?

part of a larger intellectual system, the law as a whole, it

should be constructed so as to make that larger system coher-

ent in principle. Earl argued that the law elsewhere respects

the principle that no one should profit from his own wrong,

so the statute of wills should be read to deny inheritance to

someone who has murdered to obtain it.

Judge Earl’s views prevailed. They attracted four other

judges to his side, while Judge Gray was able to find only one

ally. So Elmer did not receive his inheritance. I shall use this

case as an 1llustration of many different points, in the argu-

ment that follows, but the most important 1s this: the dispute

about Elmer was not about whether judges should follow the

law or adjust 1t in the interests of justice. At least 1t was not if

we take the opinions I described at face value and (as I shall

argue later) we have no justification for taking them in any

other way. It was a dispute about what the law was, about

what the real statute the legislators enacted really said.

The Snail Darter Case

I now describe a much more recent case, though more

briefly, in order to show that this kind of dispute continues

to occupy judges.”” In 1973, during a period of great na-

tional concern about conservation, the United States Con-

gress enacted the Endangered Species Act. It empowers the

secretary of the interior to designate species that would be

endangered, in his opinion, by the destruction of some habi-

tat he considers crucial to its survival and then requires all

agencies and departments of the government to take “such

action necessary to insure that actions authorized, funded, or

carried out by them do not jeopardize the continued exis-

14

tence of such endangered species.

A group of conservationists based in Tennessee had been

opposing dam construction projects of the Tennessee Valley

Authority, not because of any threat to species but because

these projects were altering the geography of the area by

converting free-flowing streams into narrow, ugly ditches to
