CONVENTIONALISM

148

We shall shortly see that pragmatism is less radical than this

description makes it seem, for it recognizes reasons of strat-

egy why statutes should generally be enforced in accordance

with their plain and intended meaning and why past judi-

cial decisions should normally be respected in present cases.

Otherwise government would lose its power to control peo-

ple’s behavior, and this would obviously make the commu-

nity as a whole worse off. But these are only reasons of

strategy, and a pragmatist believes judges should always be

ready to override such reasons when he thinks that changing

rules laid down in the past would be in the general interest

overall, notwithstanding some limited damage to the au-

thority of political institutions.

A society frankly committed to legal pragmatism would

be different from a self-consciously conventionalist society.

Suppose Mrs. McLoughlin had been at the scene of the acci-

dent; according to conventionalism she would have a legal

right to recover in virtue of past decisions. A pragmatist

judge might possibly decide, in such a case, to overrule these

past decisions. He must be sensitive to considerations of

strategy, which will include a concern for the virtues of coor-

dination. So even if he believed that from an economic point

of view the best decision would be to deny any recovery for

emotional injury, he would still ask whether the role of law

in encouraging reliance and coordination would be much

damaged 1if he ignored the precedents, and, if it would,

whether this loss would be made up in the gains he foresees

from the change. But he might conclude that the damage to

law’s role would be small and the economic gains great, and

so decide to award no damages.

The practical difference between the two theories of adju-

dication is therefore this: in a conventionalist regime judges

would not think themselves free to change rules adopted

pursuant to the reigning legal conventions just because on

balance a different rule would be more just or efficient. In a

pragmatist regime no conventions of that sort would be rec-

ognized, and though judges would normally enforce deci-
