INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

i

more a matter of “seeing” at once the dimensions of their

practice, a purpose or aim in that practice, and the post-

interpretive consequence of that purpose. And this “seeing”

would ordinarily be no more insightful than just falling in

with an interpretation then popular in some group whose

point of view the interpreter takes up more or less automati-

cally. Nevertheless there will be inevitable controversy, even

among contemporaries, over the exact dimensions of the

practice they all interpret, and still more controversy about

the best justification of that practice. For we have already

identified, in our preliminary account of what interpretation

1s like, a great many ways to disagree.

We can now look back through our analytical account to

compose an inventory of the kind of convictions or beliefs or

assumptions someone needs to interpret something. He

needs assumptions or convictions about what counts as part

of the practice in order to define the raw data of his inter-

pretation at the preinterpretive stage; the interpretive atti-

tude cannot survive unless members of the same interpretive

community share at least roughly the same assumptions

about this. He also needs convictions about how far the jus-

tification he proposes at the interpretive stage must fit the

standing features of the practice to count as an interpreta-

tion of it rather than the invention of something new. Can

the best justification of the practices of courtesy, which al-

most everyone else takes to be mainly about showing defer-

ence to social superiors, really be one that would require, at

the reforming stage, no distinctions of social rank? Would

this be too radical a reform, too ill-fitting a justification to

count as an interpretation at all? Once again, there cannot

be too great a disparity in different people’s convictions

about fit; but only history can teach us how much difference

is too much. Finally, he will need more substantive convic-

tions about which kinds of justification really would show

the practice in the best light, judgments about whether so-

cial ranks are desirable or deplorable, for example. These

substantive convictions must be independent of the convic-
