INTEGRITY IN LAW

247

isfactory if it shows less damage to integrity than its rival. He

will therefore consider whether interpretation (5) fits the ex-

panded legal record better than (6). But this cannot be a

merely mechanical decision; he cannot simply count the

number of past decisions that must be conceded to be “mis-

takes” on each interpretation. For these numbers may reflect

only accidents like the number of cases that happen to have

come to court and not been settled before verdict. He must

take into account not only the numbers of decisions counting

for each interpretation, but whether the decisions expressing

one principle seem more important or fundamental or wide-

ranging than the decisions expressing the other. Suppose

interpretation (6) fits only those past judicial decisions

involving charges of negligence against one particular

profession—say, lawyers—and interpretation (5) justifies

all other cases, involving all other professions, and also

AR

other kinds

of economic damage cases

5

well.

Interpretation (5) then fits the legal record better on the

whole, even if the number of cases involving lawyers is for

some reason numerically greater, unless the argument shifts

again, as it well might, when the field of study expands even

more.

Now suppose a different possibility: that though liability

has in many and varied cases actually been limited to an

amount less than interpretation (5) would allow, the opin-

ions attached to these cases made no mention of the princi-

ple of interpretation (6), which has in fact never before been

recognized in official judicial rhetoric. Does that show that

interpretation (5) fits the legal record much better, or that

interpretation (6) is ineligible after all? Judges in fact divide

about this issue of fit. Some would not seriously consider in-

terpretation (6) if no past judicial opinion or legislative

statement had ever explicitly mentioned its principle. Others

reject this constraint and accept that the best interpretation

of some line of cases may lie in a principle that has never

been recognized explicitly but that nevertheless offers a bril-

liant account of the actual decisions, showing them in a bet-
