PRAGMATISM AND PERSONIFICATION

B

conclusion in the language of personification. We might say

that the corporation was liable, meaning only to summarize

in a convenient way the responsibilities we ascribed to each

of the shareholders. But this personification would be 1idle;

it played no role in our argument and only decorated our

conclusions. If, on the other hand, we reached the same con-

clusion through the second method, which begins 1n

considering the responsibility of the institution as a whole,

then the personification would have been not i1dle but work-

ing. For our conclusions about the group would then be in

every way prior to any conclusions about individuals; we

would have relied on principles of responsibility that draw

their sense from a practice or way of thinking to which the

personification is indispensable.

Indeed through the second method (but not the first) we

might come to some decision about the responsibilities of the

group or institution while still in doubt (or disagreeing

among ourselves) about the consequent liabilities or respon-

sibilities of the relevant individuals. The personification fur-

nishes not only a necessary step on the way to judgments

about particular people, but a plateau we can occupy to con-

sider these judgments. None of this means that 1n the second

method, when we begin with the group, we are interested 1n

group responsibility for its own sake. There would be no

point to developing or applying principles of group responsi-

bility if we did not assume that these were connected to

judgments about how real people must now act. But we can

separate the two issues, reserving the question of individual

responsibility as one to be taken up only after we have de-

cided whether the group as a whole has met the standards

appropriate for it. The personification is deep: it consists In

taking the corporation seriously as a moral agent. But it is

still a personification not a discovery, because we recognize

that the community has no independent metaphysical exis-

tence, that it is itself a creature of the practices of thought

and language in which it figures.
