INTEGRITY IN LAW

2

studies announces rather than defends these claims, as if

they were self-evident. This may reflect a serious misunder-

standing of the kind of argument necessary to establish a

skeptical position: the argument must be interpretive rather

than historical. Critical legal historians describe law geneti-

cally by tracing different pieces of legal doctrine back to the

interests and 1deologies that originally placed each in the

law or molded or retained it. They take as their targets other

historians who offer causal theories claiming to explain the

historical development of law as the unfelding of some gen-

eral functionalist design; they have no difhiculty in defend-

Ing, against these causal accounts, a less structured approach

to causal explanation in law, an approach more permissive

to contingency and accident.'® Their work is useful to Her-

cules, and he would neglect it at his peril, because i1t reminds

him that nothing in the way his law was produced guaran-

tees his success in finding a coherent interpretation of it. But

neither does history guarantee his failure, because his ambi-

tions are interpretive In the sense appropriate to the philo-

sophical foundations of law as integrity. He tries to impose

order over doctrine, not to discover order in the forces that

created 1t. He struggles toward a set of principles he can offer

to integrity, a scheme for transforming the varied links in the

chain of law into a vision of government now speaking with

one voice, even if this 1s very different from the voices of

leaders past. He might fail—we have been charting the ways

he might fail—but his failure is not ensured by anything

even the most careful and sensitive history teaches.

There 1s a second, more philosophical strain in the litera-

ture of critical legal studies, however, which is more directly

in point because its claims are more easily understood as in-

terpretive. It aims to show, not merely that different ideolo-

gies produced different parts of the law, but that any

competent contemporary justification of these different parts

would necessarily display fundamental contradictions of

principle, that Hercules must fail in imposing a coherent

structure on law’s empire as a whole. This skeptical inter-
