!

INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

see what sort of beliefs and motives would make sense of his

diction, gesture, tone, and so forth. They must all “speak the

same language’ in both senses of that phrase. But this simi-

larity of interests and convictions need hold only to a point:

it must be sufficiently dense to permit genuine disagreement,

but not so dense that disagreement cannot break out.

So each of the participants in a social practice must dis-

tinguish between trying to decide what other members of his

community think the practice requires and trying to decide,

for himself, what it really requires. Since these are different

questions, the interpretive methods he uses to answer the

latter question cannot be the methods of conversational in-

terpretation, addressed to individuals one by one, that he

would use to answer the former. A social scientist who offers

to interpret the practice must make the same distinction. He

can, if he wishes, undertake only to report the various opin-

ions different individuals in the community have about

what the practice demands. But that would not constitute

an interpretation of the practice itself; if he undertakes that

different project he must give up methodological individu-

alism and use the methods his subjects use in forming their

own opinions about what courtesy really requires. He must,

that is, join the practice he proposes to understand; his con-

clusions are then not neutral reports about what the citizens

of courtesy think but claims about courtesy competitive with

B

Rl R

What about the more ambitious suggestion that interpre-

tation of a social practice 1s conversational interpretation

addressed to the community as a whole conceived as some

superentity? Philosophers have explored the 1dea of a collec-

tive or group consciousness for many reasons and in many

contexts, some of them pertinent to interpretation; I discuss

some of these in a note."” Even if we accept the difficult on-

tology of this suggestion, however, it is defeated by the same

argument as 1s fatal to the less ambitious one. Conversa-

tional 1nterpretation 1s 1nappropriate because the practice

being interpreted sets the conditions of interpretation: cour-
