21016

THE COMMON LAW

—

duty and take up the second strategy I distinguished, which

matches ordinary moral intuitions better? Can we show that

a duty to take others’ interests as of equal importance holds

only sometimes, including occasions when abstract legal

rights conflict?

Most of us believe, as I said, that we have no general duty

to treat all other members of our community with equal care

and concern in everything we do. But we believe our govern-

ment, the community personified, does have this duty, and

we might hope to find in this pervasive public responsibility

some explanation of why we as individuals sometimes have

that duty as well. Government makes decisions touching the

production, distribution, and ownership of property and the

uses people are entitled to make of property they own. These

decisions together constitute a scheme of property, and the

government’s responsibility to treat people as equals in all its

decisions governs the property scheme 1t creates and en-

forces. That raises the following problem about the permis-

sive attitude we take as individuals, the attitude that allows

us to favor ourselves and those close to us in the use we make

of the property the scheme assigns to us. Why should govern-

ment not countermand that permissive attitude by adopting

rules of law that forbid 1t? Why should 1t not, in the exercise

of its egalitarian responsibilities, adopt exactly the demand-

ing principle I said we reject, that we should never use our

property except in ways that recognize rather than flout the

equal concern for all that guided the government in design-

ing 1ts scheme?

We must think harder about the scope and character of

that public duty. Government, we say, has an abstract re-

sponsibility to treat each citizen’s fate as equally impor-

tant.'” Rival conceptions or theories of equality are rival

answers to the question of what system of property would

meet that standard. We must begin by noticing how these

conceptions of equality differ from one another, limiting our

attention to those that figure in contemporary political ar-

gument.
