INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

69

large pamphlet can properly be treated either as a book or

not. Any step he took in that direction would immediately

cross the line the community drew around his assignment; he

would have provided his own positive interpretation, not a

piece of neutral background analysis. He is like a man at the

North Pole who 1s told to go any way but south.

He complains about his assignment and is given new in-

structions. “At least you can answer this question. Our prac-

tices are now very different from what they were several

generations ago, and different as well from the practices of

courtesy 1n neighboring and distant societies. Yet we know

the practice we have is the same sort of practice as those.

There must therefore be some feature all these different

practices have in common in virtue of which they are all

versions of courtesy. This feature 1s surely neutral in the way

we want, since it 1s shared by people with such different

ideas of what courtesy actually requires. Please tell us what

it 1s.” He can indeed answer this question, though not in the

way the Instructions suggest.

His explanation of the sense in which courtesy remains the

same Institution throughout its career of changes and adap-

tion and across different communities with very different

rules will not appeal to any ‘“defining feature” common to

all instances or examples of that institution.'® For by hy-

pothesis there is no such feature: courtesy 1s at one stage re-

garded as a matter of respect, and at another as something

very different. His explanation will be historical: the institu-

tion has the continuity—to use the familiar Wittgensteinian

figure—of a rope composed of many strands no one of which

runs for its entire length or across its entire width. It is only a

historical fact that the present institution is the descendant,

through interpretive adaptations of the sort we noticed, of

earlier ones, and that foreign institutions are also descen-

dants of similar earlier examples. The changes from one

period to another, or the differences from one society to an-

other, may be sufficiently great so that the continuity should

be denied. Which changes are great enough to cut the thread
