THE CONSTITUTION

1818

stitutional provision not drawn from the concrete intentions

of the historical authors, it gives constitutional law a unilat-

eralist flavor and therefore achieves the greatest possible sta-

bility and predictability. The Constitution will not be

invoked to overturn some legislative or executive decision

unless historical scholarship has demonstrated that this re-

sult was intended in a concrete way. But if this unilateralist

constraint i1s thought too restrictive, the weaker form will

nevertheless provide more stability than any interpretive

style that disregards concrete historical intentions alto-

gether. No statute or decision will be overturned if it can be

shown on historical grounds that the framers expected that it

would not be.”

Does historicism, backed by this argument from stability,

offer a decent interpretation of American constitutional

practice? The stronger version of historicism does not fit that

practice at all. The Supreme Court has not taken a unilat-

eralist attitude toward constitutional adjudication; it has

recognized constitutional rights the framers did not contem-

plate. The weaker version fits the practice better just because

it 1s weaker, and 1t may fit well enough to survive if the ar-

gument from stability 1s strong enough in substance. The

Court has often applied the Constitution with results that

would probably have dismayed its eighteenth- and nine-

teenth-century sponsors. Brown is one example; the capital

punishment and abortion and reapportionment decisions

are others. But perhaps these are not so numerous and are in

the main local enough to particular Courts and periods to

allow the historicist to count them as mistakes. We cannot

just dismiss that claim as obviously disingenuous, as masking

what is really invention rather than interpretation. For the

argument from stability is quite independent of any particu-

lar view about the justice or fairness of segregation, capital

punishment, and antiabortion legislation, so a judge who

accepts weak historicism may well be constrained 1n giving

effect to his other political instincts and attitudes.

We must therefore consider the argument from stability as
