LAW BEYOND LAW

404

forms of unintended damage. But he cannot appeal to the

Constitution to order Congress or state legislatures to adopt

the economic and redistributive programs that equality of

resources demands. Nor, given the various constraints he ac-

cepts about how far he 1s free to read statutes to promote his

view of justice, can he read into welfare and taxation

schemes provisions equality of resources would approve. Po-

litical integrity as well as justice would have been better

served, he thinks, 1f national and local governments had

more consistently accepted equality of resources as the goal

of their economic programs. But he would violate integrity

himself if he were to 1gnore the decisions they actually made.

Inclusive and Pure Integrity

Law as integrity therefore not only permits but fosters differ-

ent forms of substantive conflict or tension within the overall

best interpretation of law. We are now in a position to ex-

plain why. We accept integrity as a distinct political ideal,

and we accept the adjudicative principle of integrity as sov-

ereign over law, because we want to treat ourselves as an as-

sociation of principle, as a community governed by a single

and coherent vision of justice and fairness and procedural

due process in the right relation. We have already noticed

that these three component virtues—fairness and justice and

process—sometimes conflict. Hercules i1s prevented from

achieving integrity viewed from the standpoint of justice

alone—coherence 1n the substantive principles of justice that

flow throughout his account of what the law now 15 be-

cause he has been seeking a wider integrity that gives eflect

to principles of fairness and procedural due process as well.

Justice, we said, 1s a matter of the right outcome of the po-

litical system: the right distribution of goods, opportunities,

and other resources. Fairness is a matter of the right struc-

ture for that system, the structure that distributes influence

over political decisions in the right way. Procedural due pro-
