WHAT IS LAW?

B30

McLoughlin’s case disagreed about the force and character

of precedent as a source of law, and though the disagree-

ment was subtle it was nevertheless a disagreement about what

the law was, not about what should be done in the absence

B2

In fact there is no positive evidence of any kind that when

lawyers and judges seem to be disagreeing about the law

they are really keeping their fingers crossed. There is no ar-

gument for that view of the matter except the question-beg-

ging argument that if the plain-fact thesis is sound they just

must be pretending. There is, however, a more sophisticated

defense of positivism, which concedes that lawyers and

judges 1n our sample cases thought they were disagreeing

about the law but argues that for a somewhat different rea-

son this self-description should not be taken at face value.

This new argument stresses the importance of distinguishing

between standard or core uses of the word ‘“law’ and border-

line or penumbral uses of that word. It claims that lawyers

and judges all follow what 1s mainly the same rule for using

“law’ and therefore all agree about, for example, the legal

speed limit in California and the basic rate of tax in Britain.

But because rules for using words are not precise and exact,

they permit penumbral or borderline cases in which people

speak somewhat differently from one another. So lawyers

may use the word “law” differently in marginal cases when

some but not all of the grounds specified in the main rule are

satisfied. This explains, according to the present argument,

why they disagree in hard cases like our sample cases. Each

uses a slightly different version of the main rule, and the dif-

ferences become manifest in these special cases.”® In this re-

spect, the argument continues, our use of “law” is no

different from our use of many other words we find unprob-

lematical. We all agree about the standard meaning of

“house,” for example. Someone who denies that the de-

tached one-family residences on ordinary suburban streets

are houses just does not understand the English language.
