INTEGRITY

)

in the way we just saw any true associative community

might. But the model of principle satisfies the conditions of

true community better than any other model of community

that it 1s possible for people who disagree about justice and

fairness to adopt.

Here, then, is our case for integrity, our reason for striving

to see, so far as we can, both its legislative and adjudicative

principles vivid in our political life. A community of princi-

ple accepts integrity. It condemns checkerboard statutes and

less dramatic violations of that ideal as violating the associa-

tive character of its deep organization. Internally compro-

mised statutes cannot be seen as flowing from any single

coherent scheme of principle; on the contrary, they serve the

incompatible aim of a rulebook community, which is to

compromise convictions along lines of power. They contra-

dict rather than confirm the commitment necessary to make

a large and diverse political society a genuine rather than a

bare community: the promise that law will be chosen,

changed, developed, and interpreted in an overall principled

way. A community of principle, faithful to that promise, can

claim the authority of a genuine associative community and

can therefore claim moral legitimacy—that its collective de-

cisions are matters of obligation and not bare power—in the

name of fraternity. These claims may be defeated, for even

genuine assoclative obligations may conflict with, and must

sometimes yield to, demands of justice. But any other form

of community, whose officials rejected that commitment,

would from the outset forfeit any claim to legitimacy under

a fraternal 1deal.

The models of community used in this argument are ideal

in several ways. We cannot suppose that most people in our

own political societies self-consciously accept the attitudes of

any of them. I constructed them so that we could decide

which attitudes we should try to interpret our political prac-

tices to express, which is a different matter, and the exercise

warrants the following conclusion. If we can understand our

practices as appropriate to the model of principle, we can
