INTEGRITY

Y

groups and obligations not by the fiat of ritual, not through

the explicit extension of conventions, but in the more com-

plex way brought in with the interpretive attitude. The con-

cepts we use to describe these groups and to claim or reject

these obligations are interpretive concepts; people can sensi-

bly argue in the interpretive way about what friendship

really 1s and about what children really owe their parents in

old age. The raw data of how friends typically treat one an-

other are no more conclusive of an argument about the obli-

gations of friendship than raw data were conclusive for

arguments about courtesy in the community I imagined or

for arguments about law for us.

Suppose we tried to compose, not just an interpretation of

a single associative practice, like family or friendship or

neighborhood, but a more abstract interpretation of the yet

more general practice of associative obligation itself. I can-

not carry that project very far here or develop any deep and

thorough study of that abstract practice. But even a quick

survey shows that we cannot account for the general practice

1f we accept the principle many philosophers have found so

appealing, that no one can have special obligations to partic-

ular people except by choosing to accept these. The connec-

tion we recognize between communal obligation and choice

1s much more complex and more a matter of degree that

varies from one form of communal association to another.

Even associations we consider mainly consensual, like

friendship, are not formed in one act of deliberate contrac-

tual commitment, the way one joins a club, but instead de-

velop through a series of choices and events that are never

seen, one by one, as carrying a commitment of that kind.

We have friends to whom we owe obligations in virtue of a

shared history, but it would be perverse to describe this as a

history of assuming obligations. On the contrary, it is a history

of events and acts that attract obligations, and we are rarely

even aware that we are entering upon any special status as

the story unfolds. People become self-conscious about the
