INTEGRITY

23 oX

hand, the discrimination against daughters may be so in-

consistent with the rest of the institution of family that it

may be seen as a mistake within it and so not a real require-

ment even 1if the institution 1s accepted. Then the conflict

disappears for that reason.

But suppose the culture accepts the equality of sexes but

in good faith thinks that equality of concern requires pater-

nalistic protection for women in all aspects of family life,

and that parental control over a daughter’s marriage is con-

sistent with the rest of the institution of family. If that insti-

tution 1s otherwise seriously unjust—if 1t forces family

members to commit crimes in the interest of the family, for

example—we will think it cannot be justified in any way

that recommends continuing 1t. Our attitude is fully skepti-

cal, and again we deny any genuine associative responsibil-

ities and so deny any conflict. Suppose, on the other hand,

that the institution’s paternalism is the only feature we are

disposed to regard as unjust. Now the conflict 1s genuine.

The other responsibilities of family membership thrive as

genuine responsibilities. So does the responsibility of a

daughter to defer to parental choice in marriage, but this

may be overridden by appeal to freedom or some other

ground of rights. The difference i1s important: a daughter

who marries against her father’s wishes, in this version of the

story, has something to regret. She owes him at least an ac-

counting, and perhaps an apology, and should 1n other ways

strive to continue her standing as a member of the commu-

nity she otherwise has a duty to honor.

I have paid such great attention to the structure of asso-

ciative obligation, and to the character and occasions of its

conflict with other responsibilities and rights, because my

aim 1s to show how political obligation can be seen as asso-

ciative, and this can be plausible only if the general structure

of associative obligations allows us to account for the condi-

tions we feel must be met before political obligation arises,

and the circumstances we believe must either defeat it or

show it in conflict with other kinds of obligations. The dis-
