INTEGRITY IN LAW

2230

Judges, however, are authors as well as critics. A judge de-

ciding McLoughlin or Brown adds to the tradition he inter-

prets; future judges confront a new tradition that includes

what he has done. Of course literary criticism contributes to

the traditions of art in which authors work; the character

and 1mportance of that contribution are themselves issues 1n

critical theory. But the contribution of judges is more direct,

and the distinction between author and interpreter more a

matter of different aspects of the same process. We can find

an even more fruitful comparison between literature and

law, therefore, by constructing an artificial genre of litera-

ture that we might call the chain novel.

In this enterprise a group of novelists writes a novel sera-

tim; each novelist in the chain interprets the chapters he has

been given 1n order to write a new chapter, which is then

added to what the next novelist receives, and so on. Each has

the job of writing his chapter so as to make the novel being

constructed the best it can be, and the complexity of this

task models the complexity of deciding a hard case under

law as integrity. The imaginary literary enterprise 1s fantas-

tic but not unrecognizable. Some novels have actually been

written in this way, though mainly for a debunking purpose,

and certain parlor games for rainy weekends in English

country houses have something of the same structure. Tele-

vision soap operas span decades with the same characters

and some minimal continuity of personality and plot,

though they are written by different teams of authors even in

different weeks. In our example, however, the novelists are

expected to take their responsibilities of continuity more

seriously; they aim jointly to create, so far as they can, a sin-

gle unified novel that is the best it can be.’

Each novelist aims to make a single novel of the material

he has been given, what he adds to it, and (so far as he can

control this) what his successors will want or be able to add.

He must try to make this the best novel it can be construed

as the work of a single author rather than, as is the fact, the

product of many different hands. That calls for an overall
