INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

gAS,

of continuity? That itself is an interpretive question, and the

answer would depend on why the question of continuity

arises.'” There is no feature that any stage or instance of the

practice just must have, in virtue of the meaning of the word

“courtesy,” and the search for such a feature would be just an-

other example of the lingering infection of the semantic sting.

Concept and Conception

Can the philosopher be less negative and more helpful? Can

he provide something in the spirit of what his clients want:

an account of courtesy more conceptual and less substantive

than the theories they already have and use? Perhaps. It is

not unlikely that the ordinary debates about courtesy in the

imaginary community will have the following treelike struc-

ture. People by and large agree about the most general and

abstract propositions about courtesy, which form the trunk

of the tree, but they disagree about more concrete refine-

ments or subinterpretations of these abstract propositions,

about the branches of the tree. For example, at a certain

stage 1n the development of the practice, everyone agrees

that courtesy, described most abstractly, 1s a matter of re-

spect. But there 1s a major division about the correct inter-

pretation of the idea of respect. One party thinks respect,

properly understood, should be shown to people of a certain

rank or group more or less automatically, while the other

thinks respect must be deserved person by person. The first

of these parties subdivides further about which ranks or

groups are entitled to respect; the second subdivides about

what acts earn respect. And so on into further and further

subdivisions of opinion.

In these circumstances the initial trunk of the tree—the

presently uncontroversial tie between courtesy and re-

spect—would act, in public argument as well as private ru-

mination, as a kind of plateau on which further thought and

argument are built. It would then be natural for people to re-

gard that tie as special and in the way of conceptual, to say,
