INTEGRITY IN LAW

oY

rival interpretations against a complex matrix of intersecting

political and moral principles. Their craft trains them to see

structure in facts and doctrine at once; that 1s what thinking

as a lawyer really is. If they decided to imitate Hercules, try-

ing in each case to secure some general theory of law as a

whole, they would be paralyzed while their docket choked.”

This critic misunderstands our exercise. Hercules i1s useful to

us just because he i1s more reflective and self-conscious than

any real judge need be or, given the press of work, could be.

No doubt real judges decide most cases in a much less me-

thodical way. But Hercules shows us the hidden structure of

their judgments and so lays these open to study and criti-

cism. We must be careful to distinguish, moreover, two

senses 1n which he might be said to have more powers than

any actual judge could. He works so much more quickly

(and has so much more time available) that he can explore

avenues and ideas they cannot; he can pursue, not just one

or two evident lines in expanding the range of cases he stud-

1es but all the lines there are. That 1s the sense in which he

can aim at more than they: he can aim at a comprehensive

theory, while theirs must be partial. But he has no vision into

transcendental mysteries opaque to them. His judgments

of fit and political morality are made on the same material

and have the same character as theirs. He does what they

would do 1if they had a career to devote to a single deci-

sion; they need, not a different conception of law from his,

but skills of craft husbandry and efficiency he has never had

ORI ILRR - A1)

Now this critic trims his sails. “In any case Hercules has

too much theory for easy cases. Good judges just know that

the plain meaning of a plain statute, or a crisp rule always

applied and never doubted in precedent, 1s law, and that is

all there 1s to 1t. It would be preposterous, not just time-con-

suming, to subject these undoubted truths to interpretive

tests on each occasion. So law as integrity, with 1ts elaborate

and top-heavy structure, is at best a conception for hard

cases alone. Something much more like conventionalism is a
