CONVENTIONALISM

140

cordance with standards chosen and read through proce-

dures the community as a whole knows will be used for that

purpose, procedures so widely acknowledged that they are

matters of general social or professional convention. We

must now ask whether that 1deal is sound, and how far it ac-

tually supports conventionalism.

Fairness and Surprise

We must clear away one possible source of confusion. It

might be thought that the ideal of protected expectation is a

distinctly democratic ideal, because it proposes that coercion

be used only when authorized by procedures to which the

people have consented.® This appeal to democracy, however,

confuses two issues: Should the people have the final say,

through democratically elected institutions, about how

judges decide cases? Which theory about how judges should

decide cases should the people choose or approve? In both

the United States and Britain, and elsewhere in democratic

countries, the people have residual power to alter whatever

judicial practice is in place. They can elect legislators who

have the power to impose their will on judges through one

means or another.” We are asking now for answers to the sec-

ond question. Can we find some reason why these legislators

should choose a conventionalist system of adjudication?

Someone might say: “T’he conventionalist system 1s best

because fairness requires that people be put on notice when

their plans may be interrupted by the intervention of state

power, depriving them of liberty or property or opportunity.

Intervention of that kind is justified only when the occasions

of intervention have been announced 1n advance so that

anyone who i1s listening will hear and understand. Conven-

tions must therefore be established and followed strictly,

about the manner in which such instructions are to be given

and their content fixed, so that it cannot be a matter of dis-

pute what these instructions are. Of course, no matter how

explicit these conventional procedures are or how scrupu-
