INTEGRITY IN LAW

L

other in an overall assessment, and 1t is that possibility of

contest, particularly between textual and substantive judg-

ments, that distinguishes a chain novelist’s assignment from

more independent creative writing. Nor can we draw any

flat distinction between the stage at which a chain novelist

interprets the text he has been given and the stage at which

he adds his own chapter, guided by the interpretation he has

settled on. When he begins to write he might discover in

what he has written a different, perhaps radically different,

interpretation. Or he might find it impossible to write in the

tone or theme he first took up, and that will lead him to re-

consider other interpretations he first rejected. In either case

he returns to the text to reconsider the lines it makes eligible.

Scrooge

We can expand this abstract description of the chain novel-

ist’s judgment through an example. Suppose you are a novel-

ist well down the chain. Suppose Dickens never wrote A

Christmas Carol, and the text you are furnished, though writ-

ten by several people, happens to be the first part of that

short novel. You consider these two interpretations of the

central character: Scrooge 1s inherently and irredeemably

evil, an embodiment of the untarnished wickedness of

human nature freed from the disguises of convention he re-

jects; or Scrooge is inherently good but progressively cor-

rupted by the false values and perverse demands of high

capitalist society. Obviously it will make an enormous differ-

ence to the way you continue the story which of these inter-

pretations you adopt. If you have been given almost all of

A Christmas Carol with only the very end to be written—

Scrooge has already had his dreams, repented, and sent his

turkey—it is too late for you to make him irredeemably

wicked, assuming you think, as most interpreters would, that

the text will not bear that interpretation without too much

strain. I do not mean that no interpreter could possibly think

Scrooge 1nherently evil after his supposed redemption.
