INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

IE:

more reflectively than others—form a sense of justice that is

an interpretation nonetheless, and some of us even revise our

interpretation from time to time. Perhaps the institution of

justice started as I imagined courtesy starting: in simple and

straightforward rules about crime and punishment and

debt. But the interpretive attitude flourished by the time

the earliest political philosophy was written, and it has

flourished since. The progressive reinterpretations and

transformations have been much more complex than those I

described for courtesy, but each has built on the rearrange-

ment of practice and attitude achieved by the last.

Political philosophers can play the various roles I imag-

ined for the philosopher of courtesy. They cannot develop

semantic theories that provide rules for “justice” like the

rules we contemplated for “book.” They can, however, try to

capture the plateau from which arguments about justice

largely proceed, and try to describe this 1n some abstract

proposition taken to define the *“‘concept” of justice for their

community, so that arguments over justice can be under-

stood as arguments about the best conception of that con-

cept. Our own philosophers of justice rarely attempt this, for

it is difficult to find a statement of the concept at once sufh-

ciently abstract to be uncontroversial among us and sufh-

ciently concrete to be useful. Our controversies about justice

are too rich, and too many different kinds of theories are now

in the field. Suppose a philosopher proposes, for example,

this statement of the concept: justice 1s different from other

political and moral virtues because 1t 1s a matter of entitle-

ment, a matter of what those who will be affected by the acts

of individuals or institutions have a right to expect at their

hands. This seems unhelpful, because the concept of entitle-

ment is itself too close to justice to be illuminating, and

somewhat too controversial to count as conceptual in the

present sense, because some prominent theories of justice—

P

and even utilitari-

the Marxist theory, if there is one,

anism—would nevertheless reject it. Perhaps no useful state-

ment of the concept of justice is available. If so, this casts no
