24

WHAT IS LAW?

.

any statute but to earlier decisions by courts. He argues that

the judge in his case should follow the rules laid down in

these earlier cases, which he claims require a verdict for him.

McLoughlin was of this sort.'®

Mrs. McLoughlin’s husband and four children were in-

jured in an automobile accident in England at about 4 P.M.

on October 19, 1973. She heard about the accident at home

from a neighbor at about 6 P.M. and went immediately to

the hospital, where she learned that her daughter was dead

and saw the serious condition of her husband and other chil-

dren. She suffered nervous shock and later sued the defen-

dant driver, whose negligence had caused the accident, as

well as other parties who were in different ways involved, for

compensation for her emotional injuries. Her lawyer pointed

to several earlier decisions of English courts awarding com-

pensation to people who had suffered emotional injury on

seeing serious injury to a close relative. But in all these cases

the plaintiff had either been at the scene of the accident or

had arrived within minutes. In a 1972 case, for example, a

wife recovered—won compensation—for emotional injury;

she had come upon the body of her husband immediately

after his fatal accident.”” In 1967 a man who was not related

to any of the victims of a train crash worked for hours trying

to rescue victims and suffered nervous shock from the experi-

ence. He was allowed to recover.”® Mrs. McLoughlin’s law-

yer relied on these cases as precedents, decisions which had

made it part of the law that people in her position are enti-

tled to compensation.

British and American lawyers speak of the doctrine of

precedent; they mean the doctrine that decisions of earlier

cases sufficiently like a new case should be repeated in the

new case. They distinguish, however, between what we

might call a strict and a relaxed doctrine of precedent. The

strict doctrine obliges judges to follow the earlier decisions of

certain other courts (generally courts above them but some-

times at the same level in the hierarchy of courts in their

jurisdiction), even if they believe those decisions to have
