236

INTEGRITY IN LAW

merely subjective. If we treat this further charge as the exter-

nal skeptic’s regular complaint, then it 1s pointless and mis-

leading in the way we noticed in Chapter 2. It gives a chain

novelist no reason to doubt or abandon the conclusions he

reaches, about which interpretations fit the text well enough

to count, for example, or so poorly that they must be rejected

if other interpretations, otherwise less attractive, are avail-

able.

The skeptical objection can be made more interesting,

however, if we weaken it in the following way. It now insists

that a felt constraint may sometimes be illusory not for the

external skeptic’s dogmatic reason, that a genuine constraint

must be uncontroversial and independent of other beliefs

and attitudes, but because it may not be sufficiently disjoint,

within the system of the interpreter’s more substantive artis-

tic convictions, ever actually to check or impede these, even

from his point of view.> That is a lively possibility, and we

must be on guard against it when we criticize our own or

other people’s interpretive arguments. I made certain as-

sumptions about the structure of your aesthetic opinions

when I imagined your likely overall judgment about A4

Christmas Carol. 1 assumed that the different types of discrete

judgments you combine In your overall opinion are sufhi-

ciently independent of one another, within the system of

your ideas, to allow some to constrain others. You reject

reading Scrooge’s supposed redemption as hypocritical for

“formal” reasons about coherence and integration of plot

and diction and figure. A decent novel (you think) would

not make a hypocritical redemption the upshot of so dra-

matic and shattering an event as Scrooge’s horrifying night.

These formal convictions are independent of your more sub-

stantive opinions about the competing value of different lit-

erary aims: even if you think a novel of original sin would be

more exciting, that does not transform your formal convic-

tion into one more amenable to the original sin interpreta-

tion. But suppose I am wrong in these assumptions about

your mental life. Suppose we discover 1n the process of argu-
