23 016)

INTEGRITY IN LAW

better interpretation of what judges do in the easy ones.”

The distinction between easy and hard cases at law is neither

so clear nor so important as this critic assumes, as we shall

see in Chapter g, but Hercules does not need that point now.

Law as integrity explains and justifies easy cases as well as

hard ones; it also shows why they are easy. It is obvious that

the speed limit in California is 55 because it is obvious that

any competent interpretation of California traffic law must

yield that conclusion. So easy cases are, for law as integrity,

only special cases of hard ones, and the critic’s complaint is

then only what Hercules himself would be happy to concede:

that we need not ask questions when we already know the

answer.

SKEPTICISM IN LAW

The Challenge of Internal Skepticism

No aspect of law as integrity has been so misunderstood as its

refusal to accept the popular view that there are no uniquely

right answers in hard cases at law. Here 1s a representative

statement of the view Hercules rejects. “Hard cases are hard

because different sets of principles fit past decisions well

enough to count as eligible interpretations of them. Lawyers

and judges will disagree about which of two is fairer or more

just, all things considered, but neither side can be ‘really’

right because there are no objective standards of fairness and

justice a neutral observer could use to decide between them.

So law as integrity ends in the result that there is really no

law at all in hard cases like McLoughlin. Hercules is a fraud

because he pretends that his own subjective opinions are in

some sense really better than those of others who disagree. It

would be more honest of him to admit that he has no ground

for his decision beyond his subjective preferences.”

In Chapter 2 we distinguished what I there called external

and internal skepticism. Even if external skepticism is sound

as a philosophical position, it offers no threat to our case for
