120

CONVENTIONALISM

them to enforce the literal meaning of the Environmental

Protection Act unless it could be proved that Congress in-

tended otherwise. So they thought the implicit extension of

the convention included the proposition that the TVA dam

must be halted and the snail darter saved. The minority took

a different view of the convention, and their conclusions

about the implicit extension were correspondingly different.

They thought it included the contrary proposition that the

law did not protect the fish. Since the disagreement was only

about the implicit extension of conventions they all recog-

nized at a more abstract level, they could all be said to be

soft conventionalists.

Strict conventionalism must claim a “gap” in the law,

which calls for the exercise of extralegal judicial discretion to

make new law, whenever a statute 1s vague or ambiguous or

otherwise troublesome and there is no further convention

settling how it must be read. Or when the dimensions of a

string of precedents are uncertain and lawyers disagree

about their force. A soft conventionalist need not concede

any gap in such cases, however. He can argue plausibly that

there is a correct, if controversial, way to interpret the ab-

stract conventions of legislation and precedent so that they

decide any case that might arise. He can say that according

to the correct elaboration the snail darter is saved (or aban-

doned) by the law or that Mrs. McLoughlin is compensated

(or denied compensation). He then claims these propositions

for the implicit extension of legal conventions; that 1s, he

claims them for law on his conception and so denies any gap

in the law.

Indeed, a soft conventionalist would be able to deny that

there were gaps even if lawyers disagreed about these ab-

stract conventions, even if many lawyers denied that statutes

make law or that precedents exert some influence over later

decisions. With a little imagination the soft conventionalist

could draft some even more abstract proposition everyone

does accept, which he might then elaborate in such a way as

to validate a proposition of law about snail darters. If there is
