STATUTES

348

STATUTES OVER TIME

The speaker’s meaning theory begins in the 1dea I said was

the root of its troubles: that legislation 1s an act of communi-

cation to be understood on the simple model of speaker and

audience, so that the commanding question in legislative in-

terpretation is what a particular speaker or group “meant”

in some canonical act of utterance. Hence the catalogue of

mysteries I began by reviewing. Who 1s the speaker? When

did he speak? What mental state supplied his meaning?

These mysteries are spawned by a single domineering as-

sumption: that their solutions must converge on a particular

moment of history, the moment at which the statute’s

meaning 1s fixed once and for all, the moment at which the

true statute is born. That assumption has a sequel: that as

time passes and the statute must be applied in changed cir-

cumstances, judges are faced with a choice between enforc-

ing the original statute with the meaning it has always

had or amending it covertly to bring it up to date. That

is the dilemma old statutes are often supposed to pres-

ent: judges must choose, it 1s said, between the dead but legi-

timate hand of the past and the distinctly illicit charm of

progress.

Hercules’ method challenges that aspect of the speaker’s

meaning theory along with all the rest. It rejects the as-

sumption of a canonical moment at which a statute is born

and has all and only the meaning it will ever have. Hercules

interprets not just the statute’s text but its life, the process

that begins before it becomes law and extends far beyond

that moment. He aims to make the best he can of this con-

tinuing story, and his interpretation therefore changes as the

story develops. He does not identify particular people as the

exclusive “framers” of a statute and then attend only to their

hopes or expectations or concrete convictions or statements

or reactions. Each of the political considerations he brings to

bear on his overall question, how to make the statute’s story

the best it can be, identifies a variety of people and groups
