STATUTES

—

¥R

l.itor to be constructed? There are many other possible ways

ol combining individual intentions into a group or institu-

nional intention. How should Hermes settle on one?

[le must rely, once again, on his own political judgment.

Suppose he thinks that as a matter of sound principles of

democratic theory no change should be made in the status

quo of people’s legal rights unless a majority of legislators

mtended that change. That opinion would incline him to-

ward the majority intention theory. But suppose he thinks,

on the contrary, that people’s legal rights should be as close

as possible to those deemed appropriate by a majority of leg-

islators. This would attract him to the representative inten-

tion view, at least as against the majority intention view,

hecause he would then prefer people to be in the position

contemplated by the representative intention, even though it

was in detail the intention of less than a majority, than that

they remain in the status quo no one intended.

What Mental State? Hopes and Expectations

Assume, however, that the problem of combining intentions

solves 1tself in this way. Hermes knows somehow that each

member of the majority voting for the Endangered Species

Act had exactly the same opinions, so that if he discovers the

intentions of one—Senator Smith, say—he has discovered

the Intentions of all. Assume also that Smith has never ex-

pressed her opinions in any formal way, in committee report

or legislative debate, for example, but that Hermes has some

other way of discovering what her opinions were. Now he

must confront the most difficult 1ssue. Smith’s mental life is

complex; which of her beliefs, attitudes, or other mental

states constitutes her “intention”? We explored the question

ol intention 1n Chapter 2; I said that in some contexts inten-

ltons are not limited to conscious

mental states.

The

spceaker’s meaning theory, however, ties intention to the pic-

turce of legislators intending to communicate something in

particular and so does aim at discovering what a legislator
