JURISPRUDENCE REVISITED

97

I must explain that cryptic claim. Suppose we identify as

the “popular morality” of a community the set of opinions

about justice and other political and personal virtues that

are held as matters of personal conviction by most of the

members of that community, or perhaps of some moral elite

within i1t. And suppose we identify as its “moral traditions”

1its popular morality over some sizable historical period In-

cluding the present.” The distinction is then fairly straight-

forward between these ideas and the community’s law. Its

law belongs to the community not just passively, because its

members hold certain views about what 1s right or wrong,

but as a matter of active commitment, because its officials

have taken decisions that commit the community to the

rights and duties that make up law. But a particular con-

ception of law may nevertheless make the question of what

rights and duties do follow from past political decisions de-

pend in some way on popular morality as well as on the ex-

plicit content of those decisions. Or it may deny that there is

any such connection. The concept of law, understood as I

have suggested, 1s itself neutral between—because more ab-

stract than—these competing explanations of the connection

between a community’s reigning opinions and its legal com-

mitments.

Law is also different from justice. Justice 1s a matter of the

correct or best theory of moral and political rights, and any-

one’s conception of justice 1s his theory, imposed by his own

personal convictions, of what these rights actually are. Law

is a matter of which supposed rights supply a justification for

using or withholding the collective force of the state because

they are included in or implied by actual political decisions

of the past. Once again, however, this statement of the differ-

ence Is neutral among different theories about the role a per-

son’s convictions about justice should play in forming his

convictions about law. The concept permits, as available

conceptions, theories that insist that when the content of a

political decision 1s in some way unclear, justice plays a part

in deciding what legal rights in fact follow from that deci-
