INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

73

deepest possible discourtesy. Yesterday’s paradigm would

become today’s chauvinism.

A DIGRESSION: JUSTICE

The distinctions and vocabulary so far introduced will all

prove useful when we turn, in the next chapter, to law as an

interpretive concept. It i1s worth pausing, however, to see

how far our account of interpretive concepts holds of other

important political and moral i1deas, and in particular the

1dea of justice. The crude picture of how language works, the

picture that makes us vulnerable to the semantic sting, fails

for justice as it does for courtesy. We do not follow shared

linguistic criteria for deciding what facts make a situation

just or unjust. Our most intense disputes about justice—

about income taxes, for example, or affirmative action pro-

grams—are about the right tests for justice, not about

whether the facts satisfy some agreed test in some particular

case. A libertarian thinks that income taxes are unjust be-

cause they take property from its owner without his consent.

It does not matter to the libertarian whether or not the taxes

contribute to the greatest happiness in the long run. A utili-

tarian, on the other hand, thinks that income taxes are just

only 1f they do contribute to the greatest long-run happiness,

and 1t does not matter to him whether or not they take prop-

erty without the owner’s consent. So if we applied to justice

the picture of disagreement we rejected for courtesy, we

would conclude that the libertarnan and utilitarian can nei-

ther agree nor disagree about any issue of justice.

That would be a mistake, because justice i1s an institution

we interpret.”’ Like courtesy, it has a history; we each join

that history when we learn to take the interpretive attitude

toward the demands, justifications, and excuses we find

other people making in the name of justice. Very few of us

self-consciously interpret this history the way I imagined the

people in my story interpreting courtesy. But we each—some
