CONVENTIONALISM

141

lously they are used, some cases will arise, as the sample cases

showed, when the instructions will be seen to be unclear or

incomplete. In such cases judges will cause some surprise no

matter what decision they reach, so the 1dea of law, which

counsels against surprise, is no longer pertinent. Then the

judge must do his best for the community as a whole, frankly

and honestly, not pretending to ‘discover’ some law beneath

the surface of statutes or precedents that only he can see. For

the pretense hides the fact that in this case the point of law

has not been served but unavoidably disserved. If we pre-

tend there can be law when 1t i1s not clear what the law 1s, we

will lose sight of the intimate connection between law and

fair warning, and our politics will be less just in the future.

Only a system candidly committed to conventionalism,

which admits no law beyond convention, can provide the

protection we need.”

This argument assumes that reducing surprise is a valu-

able and important goal of political morality. Is that true?

Surprise occurs when people’s predictions are defeated, but

this is not in general unfair, even when the defeated predic-

tions are reasonable, that is, well supported by the anteced-

ent balance of probabilities. It 1s not unfair when my horse

loses, even 1f I was confident, with good reason, that it would

win. Surprise 1s, of course, unfair in one special circum-

stance: when a prediction has been specifically encouraged

by those who deliberately defeat it. If conventionalism were

so singlemindedly practiced in a particular jurisdiction and

so often announced and confirmed by public institutions

that people were thereby entitled to rely on that style of ad-

judication, of course it would be unfair for some judge sud-

denly to abandon it. But that is not true for us, as the

argument up to now has established. We are considering ar-

guments that try to justify conventionalism on political

grounds, arguments that would hold, for example, for people

deciding whether to institute conventionalism on a clean

slate. The suggestion that conventionalism reduces surprise

must assume, then, not that surprise is unfair but that it is
