INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

75

doubt on the sense of disputes about justice, but testifies only

to the imagination of people trying to be just.

In any case, we have something that is more important

than a useful statement of the concept. We share a preinter-

pretive sense of the rough boundaries of the practice on

which our imagination must be trained. We use this to dis-

tinguish conceptions of justice we reject, even deplore, from

positions we would not count as conceptions of justice at all

even 1f they were presented under that title. The libertarian

ethic 1s, for many of us, an unattractive theory of justice. But

the thesis that abstract art is unjust is not even unattractive;

it 1s incomprehensible as a theory about justice because no

competent preinterpretive account of the practice of justice

embraces the criticism and evaluation of art.%*

Philosophers, or perhaps sociologists, of justice can also do

useful work in identifying the paradigms that play the role

1n arguments about justice that I said paradigms would play

in arguments about courtesy. It 1s paradigmatic for us now

that punishing innocent people is unjust, that slavery is un-

just, that stealing from the poor for the rich 1s unjust. Most

of us would reject out of hand any conception that seemed to

require or permit punishing the innocent. It is a standing ar-

gument against utilitarianism, therefore, that it cannot

provide a good account or justification of these central

paradigms; utilitarians do not ignore that charge as irrele-

vant, but on the contrary use heroic ingenuity to try to refute

it. Some theories of justice do contest much of what their

contemporaries take as paradigmatic, however, and this ex-

plains not only why these theories—Nietzsche’s, for example,

or Marx’s apparently contradictory thoughts about jus-

tice—have seemed not only radical but perhaps not really

theories of justice at all. For the most part, however, philoso-

phers of justice respect and use the paradigms of their time.

Their main work consists neither in trying to state the con-

cept of justice nor in redefining paradigms but in developing

and defending what are plainly full-blooded conceptions of

justice, controversial theories that go well beyond paradigms
