|00

JURISPRUDENCE REVISITED

meaning of the words used to record the decision or the in-

tentions or purposes of the officials whose decision it was?

What 1s a “literal” meaning? What do “intention” and

“purpose’” here mean? What sense can we make of a collec-

tive purpose or intention? Does the content of a legislative or

judicial decision go beyond the concrete intentions of its au-

thors, to embrace issues that are analogous or in some way

closely related? Can legislative or judicial decisions be made

by implication, as i1t were, according to the internal logic of

the more limited decisions these officials actually had in

mind? Suppose legislators decided long ago that people who

drive carriages carelessly must compensate those they run

down. Did this decision already include the further decision

that people who drive automobiles carelessly are liable in the

same way?

Does this depend on which kind of official made the deci-

sion 1n question, and in what context? Perhaps a legislative

decision should be understood more narrowly, so that a fresh

piece of legislation is necessary to extend the rule to automo-

biles, but if a judge has established the rule about carriages

it should extend to automobiles automatically, at least if

every argument 1n favor of his initial decision applies to au-

tomobiles as well. Does the reason why legislative and judi-

cial decisions provide valid licenses for state coercion carry

over to different forms of communal decision? Should the

rules or principles embraced in the community’s conven-

tional morality in the reductive sociological sense I described

be counted as political decisions? If almost everyone thinks,

as a matter of personal conviction, that murderers should

not be allowed to inherit, does it follow that this too, along

with decisions of the competent legislature and past judicial

decisions, justifies the state’s refusing Elmer his inheritance?

This i1s only the beginning of the long list of issues a satis-

factory foundational interpretation of our own legal practice

would consider. Each question raises hosts of others, and an

interpretation of this kind 1is necessarily open-ended and

incomplete. It must also be internally complex and cross-
