INTEGRITY IN LAW

SR

Expanding the Range

Interpretations (4), (5), and (6) do, however, seem to pass

these initial tests. The principles of each fit the past emo-

tronal injury decisions, at least on first glance, if only because

none of these precedents presented facts that would discrimi-

nate among them. Hercules must now ask, as the next stage

of his investigation, whether any one of the three must be

ruled out because it 1s incompatible with the bulk of legal

practice more generally. He must test each interpretation

against other past judicial decisions, beyond those involving

emotional injury, that might be thought to engage them.

Suppose he discovers, for example, that past decisions pro-

vide compensation for physical injury caused by careless

driving only if the injury was reasonably foreseeable. That

would rule out interpretation (4) unless he can find some

principled distinction between physical and emotional in-

jury that explains why the conditions for compensation

should be more restrictive for the former than the latter,

which seems extremely unlikely.

Law as integrity, then, requires a judge to test his inter-

pretation of any part of the great network of political struc-

tures and decisions of his community by asking whether it

could form part of a coherent theory justifying the network

as a whole. No actual judge could compose anything ap-

proaching a full interpretation of all of his community’s law

at once. That i1s why we are imagining a Herculean judge of

superhuman talents and endless time. But an actual judge

can imitate Hercules in a limited way. He can allow the

scope of his interpretation to fan out from the cases immedi-

ately 1n point to cases in the same general area or depart-

ment of law, and then still farther, so far as this seems

promising. In practice even this limited process will be

largely unconscious: an experienced judge will have a suffi-

cient sense of the terrain surrounding his immediate prob-

lem to know instinctively which interpretation of a small set

of cases would survive if the range 1t must fit were expanded.
