¢

THE COMMON LAW

tion would be a mistake: I should treat a particular decision

as part of a continuing series of linked decisions each of us

makes. I might care less about playing my trumpet on each

occasion than you care about silence, less about burning my

leaves than you care about avoiding smoke, and so forth; but

if I simply defer to you every time, the balance will grow pro-

gressively lopsided. If I forgo an opportunity in one case, be-

cause the relative loss to you would be greater, this should be

entered to my credit in a moral ledger against the next deci-

sion I (or you) have to make. A moral ledger will normally

be possible, however, only between people, like neighbors,

who do have a continuing and self-conscious relationship.

There 1s no sensible or tolerable way of keeping that sort of

ledger for the decisions each of us makes that affect others

generally, or a stranger only once. We must rely on the hy-

pothesis that if everyone treats such decisions as isolated

cases, this will work out roughly fairly for everyone in the

long run.

We are moving toward this conclusion. I should follow the

principle of comparative financial harm when I know that

my taking up some concrete right will conflict with the exer-

cise of abstract rights of others with whom I have no special

continuing relationship and about whom I have no special

information of the relevant sort. My ignorance may make

the principle much harder to apply. For how shall I then de-

cide whether those who are likely to be aftected would in-

deed pay more, either individually or collectively, for the

opportunity than I would? In a commercial context, as in

the train and farmer example, my rough knowledge of the

market may supply enough information. If I run a train

company and know that the farmers along the railroad route

will together suffer more than a particular sum in the market

value of lost grain, I may assume that they would pay that

sum for the opportunity to be free of that loss. In noncom-

mercial contexts, as in the noise pollution examples, I may

need to fall back on the idea of the “reasonable” or “repre-

sentative’” person In the affected neighborhood, on my gen-
