INTEGRITY IN LAW

SN

attitudes you call on 1n deciding whether the novel would

have been better if he had been irredeemably evil. If the lat-

ter convictions are ‘‘subjective” (I use the language of exter-

nal skepticism, reluctantly, because some readers will find it

helpful here) then so are the former. Both major types of

convictions any interpreter has—about which readings fit

the text better or worse and about which of two readings

makes the novel substantively better—are internal to his

overall scheme of beliefs and attitudes; neither type is inde-

pendent of that scheme in some way that the other is not.

That observation invites the following objection. “If an in-

terpreter must in the end rely on what seems right to him, as

much in deciding whether some interpretation fits as in de-

ciding whether it makes the novel more attractive, then he is

actually subject to no genuine constraint at all, because no

one’s judgment can be constrained except by external, hard

facts that everyone must agree about.” The objection is mis-

conceived because it rests on a piece of dogmatism. It 1s a fa-

miliar part of our cognitive experience that some of our

beliefs and convictions operate as checks in deciding how far

we can or should accept or give eftect to others, and the

check is effective even when the constraining beliefs and at-

titudes are controversial. If one scientist accepts stricter

standards for research procedure than another, he will be-

lieve less of what he would like to believe. If one politician

has scruples that another politician in good faith rejects, the

first will be constrained when the second 1s not. There 1s no

harm, once again, in using the language of subjectivity the

external skeptic favors. We might say that in these examples

the constraint 1s “internal” or “subjective.” It 1s nevertheless

phenomenologically genuine, and that is what is important

here. We are trying to see what interpretation is like from the

point of view of the interpreter, and from that point of view

the constraint he feels is as genuine as if 1t were uncontrover-

sial, as if everyone else felt it as powerfully as he does. Sup-

pose someone then insists that from an “objective” point of

view there 1s no real constraint at all, that the constraint is
