STATUTES

342

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

Hercules respects textual integrity, as I said, so he will not

think that he makes a statute the best it can be merely by

projecting his own convictions onto it; he respects political

fairness, so he will not wholly ignore the public’s opinion as

this is revealed and expressed in legislative statements. The

argument from fairness takes us some distance toward ex-

plaining why Hercules will pay considerable attention to the

concrete convictions legislators express. We turn back to in-

tegrity to consider a different, and even more powerful, rea-

son for that practice, though it discriminates among such

expressions.

American legal practice now treats some statements of leg-

islative purpose as especially important in deciding how a

statute should be read. These include statements made on

the floor by the senators or congressmen who are the spon-

sors of a bill or its managers through the congressional pro-

cess, and also statements contained in the formal reports of

the special congressional committees through which the bill

passes. American courts pay a great deal of attention to these

specially privileged statements, and American legislators

take great trouble to ensure that statements they approve are

among them. Legislative history dominated the Supreme

Court’s discussion of the snail darter case, as we saw 1n

Chapter 1, though the justices disagreed about which parts

of that history were particularly important.

Why are some congressional statements, those regarded as

central parts of the legislative history, more important than

others? If we look only to fairness, we would think them

more important because they are especially good evidence of

public opinion. Statements sponsors make on the floor or in

committee reports are usually carefully considered. Other

legislators listen to or read them with more than ordinary

care. But the importance most judges attach to legislative

history cannot be fully explained in this way. For a sponsor’s

speech to an almost empty chamber is part of the core of leg-
