INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

%!

tesy insists that interpreting courtesy is not just a matter of

discovering what any particular person thinks about it. So

even if we assume that the community 1s a distinct person

with opinions and convictions of its own, a group conscious-

ness of some sort, that assumption only adds to the story a

further person whose opinions an interpreter must judge and

contest, not simply discover and report. He must still distin-

guish, that is, between the opinion the group consciousness

has about what courtesy requires, which he thinks he can

discover by reflecting on its distinct motives and purposes,

and what he, the interpreter, thinks courtesy really requires.

He still needs a kind of interpretive method he can use to test

that entity’s judgment once discovered, and this method

cannot be a matter of conversation with that entity or any-

thing else.

We began this long discussion provoked by an important

objection: that the constructive account of creative interpre-

tation 1s wrong because creative interpretation is always

conversational interpretation. That objection fails for the

interpretation of social practices even more dramatically

than it fails for artistic interpretation. The constructive ac-

count must face other objections: in particular the objection

I consider later in this chapter, that constructive interpreta-

tion cannot be objective. But we should study that mode of

interpretation further before we test 1t again.

STAGES OF INTERPRETATION

We must begin to refine constructive interpretation into an

instrument fit for the study of law as a social practice. We

shall need an analytical distinction among the following

three stages of an interpretation, noticing how different de-

grees of consensus within a community are needed for each

stage if the interpretive attitude is to flourish there. First,

there must be a “preinterpretive” stage in which the rules

and standards taken to provide the tentative content of the
