Y

PRAGMATISM AND PERSONIFICATION

murders by declaring that in the future murderers must not

be allowed to inherit, but improving social prosperity by al-

lowing Elmer himself to win. This subtle strategy would de-

pend on other judges following the new rule when murderers

appeared before them claiming inheritances, rather than

themselves deciding whether the murderer would spend the

money more usefully than the residuary legatees. But our

judge might be able to guarantee this by making plain that

he intends the new rule to govern all future cases, and that

the exception for Elmer was made possible only by the fact

that no judge had laid down a similar rule before Elmer

committed his crime.

But if the pragmatist judge thinks the matter through, he

will in the end reject this technique of “prospective-only”

rulemaking, except in very special circumstances. For he will

realize that 1if this technique became popular, people who

might benefit from new, forward-looking rules would lose

their incentive to bring to court novel cases in which these

new rules might be announced for the future. People litigate

such cases (which is both risky and expensive) only because

they believe that 1if they succeed 1n persuading some judge

that a new rule would be in the public interest, that new rule

will be applied retrospectively in their own favor. If they are

denied that prospect they will not litigate, and the commu-

nity will lose the benefits the new rules would provide.

If, on the other hand, a pragmatist judge almost invari-

ably applies his new rules retrospectively and encourages

other judges to do the same, this will achieve a further, very

great benefit for their community. We noticed this benefit in

discovering why conventionalism does worse in coordinating

social behavior than pragmatism. If people know that a new

rule will be applied retrospectively they will behave in ac-

cordance with whatever rules they imagine courts would

think 1n the general interest, and this will provide a great

part of the advantage of such rules without the need actually

to enact or adjudicate them. Suppose 1t has never been de-
