PRAGMATISM AND PERSONIFICATION

&P

should be made to compensate Mrs. McLoughlin if, but only

if, he has a moral duty to do so. Others will think that the

value of a community depends on little beyond its prosper-

ity, so Mr. O’Brian should be forced to compensate if a

practice of requiring compensation in these circumstances

would increase the wealth of the community as a whole.

Pragmatism as a conception of law does not stipulate which

of these various visions of good community are sound or at-

tractive. It encourages judges to decide and act on their own

views. It supposes that this practice will serve the commu-

nity better—bring it closer to what really 1s a fair and just

and happy society—than any alternative program that de-

mands consistency with decisions already made by other

judges or by the legislature.

A person has a legal right, according to our abstract,

“conceptual” account of legal practice, if he has a right,

flowing from past political decisions, to win a lawsuit. Con-

ventionalism offers a positive, nonskeptical theory about

what legal rights people have: they have as legal rights what-

ever rights legal conventions extract from past political deci-

sions. Law as integrity is also a nonskeptical theory of legal

rights: 1t holds that people have as legal rights whatever

rights are sponsored by the principles that provide the best

justification of legal practice as a whole. Pragmatism, on the

contrary, denies that people ever have legal rights; it takes

the bracing view that they are never entitled to what would

otherwise be worse for the community just because some leg-

islature said so or a long string of judges decided other peo-

ple were.

Legal rights and duties are a familiar part of our legal

scene; you might therefore be surprised that anyone would

propose pragmatism as an eligible interpretation of our

present practice. Pragmatists have an explanation, however,

of why the language of rights and duties figures in legal dis-

course. They argue, on pragmatic grounds, that judges must

sometimes act as if people had legal rights, because acting

that way will serve society better in the long run. The argu-
