WHAT IS LAW?

o

ple, that the speed limit 1s 55 1n California if the ofhicial Cali-

fornia statute book contains a law to that eftect, but disagree

about whether that is the speed limit because they disagree

about whether, in fact, the book does contain such a law. We

might call this an empirical disagreement about law. Or

they might disagree about the grounds of law, about which

other kinds of propositions, when true, make a particular

proposition of law true. They might agree, in the empirical

way, about what the statute books and past judicial deci-

sions have to say about compensation for fellow-servant in-

juries, but disagree about what the law of compensation

actually 1s because they disagree about whether statute

books and judicial decisions exhaust the pertinent grounds

of law. We might call that a “theoretical” disagreement

about the law.

Empirical disagreement about law is hardly mysterious.

People can disagree about what words are in the statute

books in the same way they disagree about any other matter

of fact. But theoretical disagreement in law, disagreement

about law’s grounds, is more problematic. Later in this

chapter we shall see that lawyers and judges do disagree

theoretically. They disagree about what the law really is, on

the question of racial segregation or industrial accidents, for

example, even when they agree about what statutes have

been enacted and what legal officials have said and thought

in the past. What kind of disagreement is this? How would

we ourselves judge who has the better of the argument?

The general public seems mainly unaware of that prob-

lem; indeed 1t seems mainly unaware of theoretical disagree-

ment about law. The public is much more occupied with the

issue of fidelity. Politicians and editorial writers and ordi-

nary citizens argue, sometimes with great passion, about

whether judges 1n the great cases that draw public attention

b

“‘discover

the law they announce or “invent” 1t and

whether “inventing” law is statecraft or tyranny. But the

issue of fidelity is almost never a live one in Anglo-American

courts; our judges rarely consider whether they should follow
