STATUTES

345

(o do so. The story would have been better, from the moral

point of view, if I had already come to my later opinions and

cxpressed them at the outset. I owe my nephew and the com-

munity an apology. But the situation 1s nevertheless differ-

cnt from what it would have been if I had explicitly

promised to help my nephew’s career in the way he later

asked, or had promised to install the particular device I orig-

inally thought was reasonable. Then I would not have been

so free to change my mind.

We can explain the difference in this way. A promise has

mainly a performative character and therefore a life of its

own.'’ It expresses but does not report purposes or beliefs or

convictions. It may be insincere, because the promisor has no

genuine intention to keep 1t, but it is not 1naccurate even in

the way self-understanding can be. A statement of intention,

on the other hand, 1s mainly a report rather than a perfor-

mance, and it can be either insincere or inaccurate in much

the way other self-reports are. If an interpretive statement of

intention had the same performative force as a promise, it

could not be used as 1t 1s used, to place a promise in a context

of actual beliefs and purposes and so help other people to as-

sess the promisor and predict what else he 1s likely to do.

Collapsing the statement into the promise would squeeze out

the report and only enlarge the performative act. It would

then raise a new question, of what more general purposes

and beliefs supported the enlarged promise, and this could

not be answered, because any further statement would col-

lapse 1n the same way into the black hole of the promise it-

N8

Purposes and Principle

We can be guided by this aspect of personal morality in

constructing a political role for legislative history. A commu-

nity of principle does not see legislation the way a rulebook

community does, as negotiated compromises that carry no

more or deeper meaning than the text of the statute declares;
