THE CONSTITUTION

SN

character and importance of fairness is rejected in constitu-

tional interpretation because it cannot explain explicit con-

stitutional rights, it cannot reappear as decisive over

controversial cases that ask how far integrity requires these

explicit rights to be extended to implicit rights not yet ac-

knowledged.

Nor are the passivist’s twin claims plausible in substance,

as an account of what fairness should mean in an ideal con-

stitutional structure. Fairness in the constitutional context

requires that an interpretation of some clause be heavily

penalized if it relies on principles of justice that have no

purchase in American history and culture, that have played

no part in the rhetoric of national self-examination and de-

bate. Fairness demands deference to stable and abstract fea-

tures of the national political culture, that is, not to the views

of a local or transient political majority just because these

have triumphed on a particular political occasion. If racial

segregation offends principles of equality that are accepted

over most of the nation, fairness is not violated when majori-

ties in some states are denied title to segregate. If the nation’s

history generally endorses the idea of moral independence

but denies that independence to homosexuals, though the

distinction cannot even plausibly be justified in principle,

fairness is not offended by insisting on a coherent enforce-

ment of that idea.

We may summarize. Passivism seems, at first blush, an at-

tractive theory about how far appointed judges should im-

pose their will on political majorities. But when we take

some care to disentangle the different issues it conflates, its

intellectual foundations grow steadily weaker. It must be or

contain a theory about what the Constitution, as fundamen-

tal law, already is, and that means it must be an interpreta-

tion of constitutional practice broadly understood. Passivism

fits that practice only poorly and shows 1t in its best light

only if we assume that as a matter of justice individuals have

no rights against political majorities, which 1s foreign to our

constitutional culture, or that fairness, defined in a special
