CONVENTIONALISM

I Re)

sion in Plessy v. Ferguson should be followed in the future until

the Constitution 1s amended. If a conventionalist thinks that

the Court should have disregarded Plessy in Brown because

racial segregation is especially immoral, he will 1nsist that

the Court should have made plain to the public the excep-

tional nature of its decision. that 1t should have admitted 1t

was changing the law for nonlegal reasons. The convention-

alist conception of law, which forbids the Court to claim any

law beyond convention, would force it to do just that

Conventionalism’s negative claim might also be thought

to serve the popular ideal in a different way, though this de-

pends on adding a set of claims about how judges should

decide hard cases when convention has run out. The con-

ventionalist holds, as I just said, that there is no law in cases

like MclLoughlin, and that a judge must therefore exercise a

discretion to make new law, which he then applies ret-

rospectively to the parties to the case. There is ample room

in that account of the situation for the further stipulation

that the judge should decide in a way that engages his own

political or moral convictions as little as possible and gives as

much deference as possible to institutions conventionally au-

thorized to make law. Once i1t is made clear that the judge

makes new law 1n these circumstances. as conventionalism

insists, then it seems plausible that he should choose the rule

he believes the actual legislature then in power would

choose, or, failing that, the rule he believes best represents

the will of the people as a whole

Of course that is not as good, from the point of view we

are now considering, as finding an actual past decision made

by an authorized body. The judge may be mistaken in his

judgment of what the legislature would have chosen, and

even 1f he is right, this hypothetical legislative dec131on has

not been announced in advance, so the ideal of protected

expectations has in that way been compromised. But by hy-

pothesis this is as close to serving the ideal as the judge can

come. Suppose, on the other hand, that he i1s guided by law

as integrity, which does not limit law to what convention
