INTEGRITY

YAY

munity’s public order as a kind of commodity to be distrib-

uted 1n accordance with distributive justice, a cake to be di-

vided fairly by assigning each group a proper slice.

Most of us, I think, would be dismayed by “checkerboard”

laws that treat similar accidents or occasions of racial dis-

crimination or abortion differently on arbitrary grounds.® Of

course we do accept arbitrary distinctions about some mat-

ters: zoning, for example. We accept that shops or factories

be forbidden in some zones and not others and that parking

be prohibited on alternate sides of the same street on alter-

nate days. But we reject a division between parties of opin-

ion when matters of principle are at stake. We follow a

different model: that each point of view must be allowed a

volce in the process of deliberation but that the collective

decision must nevertheless aim to settle on some coherent

principle whose influence then extends to the natural limits

of its authority.” If there must be compromise because peo-

ple are divided about justice, then the compromise must be

external, not internal; 1t must be compromise about which

scheme of justice to adopt rather than a compromised

scheme of justice.

But there lies the puzzle. Why should we turn our back on

checkerboard solutions as we do? Why should we not em-

brace them as a general strategy for legislation whenever the

community is divided over some issue of principle? Why is

this strategy not fair and reasonable, reflecting political ma-

turity and a finer sense of the political art than other com-

munities have managed to achieve? What 1s the special

defect we find in checkerboard solutions? It cannot be a fail-

ure 1n fairness (in our sense of a fair distribution of political

power) because checkerboard laws are by hypothesis fairer

than either of the two alternatives. Allowing each of two

groups to choose some part of the law of abortion, in pro-

portion to their numbers, is fairer (in our sense) than the

winner-take-all scheme our instincts prefer, which denies

many people any influence at all over an issue they think

desperately important.
