WHAT IS LAW?

'

but neither promoting the one nor resolving the other? We

will be diverted from these serious questions, the critics

warn, if we are drawn into philosophical arguments about

whether and why propositions of law can be controversial,

like anthropologists sucked into the theological disputes of

some ancient and primitive culture.

This objection fails by its own standards. It asks for social

realism, but the kind of theory it recommends i1s unable to

provide it. Of course, law is a social phenomenon. But its

complexity, function, and consequence all depend on one

special feature of its structure. Legal practice, unlike many

other social phenomena, is argumentative. Every actor in the

practice understands that what it permits or requires de-

pends on the truth of certain propositions that are given

sense only by and within the practice; the practice consists in

large part in deploying and arguing about these proposi-

tions. People who have law make and debate claims about

what law permits or forbids that would be impossible—be-

cause senseless—without law and a good part of what their

law reveals about them cannot be discovered except by no-

ticing how they ground and defend these claims. This cru-

cial argumentative aspect of legal practice can be studied in

two ways or from two points of view. One is the external

point of view of the sociologist or historian, who asks why

certain patterns of legal argument develop in some periods

or circumstances rather than others, for example. The other

1s the internal point of view of those who make the claims.

Their interest is not finally historical, though they may think

history relevant; it is practical, in exactly the way the present

objection ridicules. They do not want predictions of the legal

claims they will make but arguments about which of these

claims 1s sound and why; they want theories not about how

history and economics have shaped their consciousness but

about the place of these disciplines in argument about what

the law requires them to do or have.

Both perspectives on law, the external and the internal,

are essential, and each must embrace or take account of the
