PRAGMATISM AND PERSONIFICATION

101

judges the power to decide lawsuits in whatever way they

think is in the best interests of the community as a whole and

to invent working as-if theories of legal rights, including

theories of legislation and precedent, with that purpose in

mind. This is a bold attempt to unite pragmatism and con-

ventionalism. It takes pragmatism to be the content of a

vast, overarching convention that judges should decide cases

in the pragmatist way. Since conventionalism 1s at best no

more powerful a conception of law than pragmatism, this

marriage would hardly improve the case for the latter. But

in any case the marriage is a fake.

It 1s not true that Americans or Britons, for instance, have

tacitly agreed to delegate legislative power to judges in this

way. The pragmatist may say: judges decide on pragmatic

grounds all the time, and the people do not revolt or call for

impeachment. That begs two questions. First, 1t assumes

that pragmatism provides the best explanation of how

judges actually decide cases. We have already seen that it

leaves unexplained one prominent feature of judicial prac-

tice—the attitude judges take toward statutes and prece-

dents in hard cases—except on the awkward hypothesis that

this practice is designed to deceive the public, in which case

the public has not consented to 1t. Second, 1t assumes that

the community believes and accepts the pragmatist explana-

tion of how judges decide cases, and that assumption seems

just wrong. Surely there 1s no convention that judges may

adjust their views about legal rights for purely strategic rea-

sons. On the contrary, as we began this book by noticing,

most people think that judges who act in this way are usurp-

€rs.

So if we want to support pragmatism on the second, politi-

cal dimension, we must accept and then exploit its central

feature, its skepticism about legal rights. The pragmatist

thinks judges should always do the best they can for the fu-

ture, in the circumstances, unchecked by any need to respect

or secure consistency in principle with what other officials

have done or will do. This idea explains the exciting rhetoric
