JURISPRUDENCE REVISITED

S]e!

any one generation. Perhaps a shared sense of that danger

provides yet another reason why they do not. But law would

stagnate, and so founder in a different way, if 1t collapsed

into the runic traditionalism I imagined as the final fate of

O ilgiayia

We may take a longer view of our legal culture, noticing

how i1t develops and how its general character changes over

time. Certain interpretive solutions, including views about

the nature and force of legislation and precedent, are very

popular for a time, and their popularity, aided by normal

intellectual inertia, encourages judges to take them as settled

for all practical purposes. They are the paradigms and

quasi-paradigms of their day. But at the same time other

1ssues, perhaps equally fundamental, are matters of debate

and controversy. Perhaps for decades no judge challenges—

or even thinks of challenging—the doctrine that the inten-

tions of particular legislators are irrelevant in fixing the

meaning of a statute they have enacted. Everyone agrees

that 1ts meaning must be determined by the words of the

statute alone, ignoring any indication that the legislators did

not mean what the words say. But during this same period it

might be controversial whether the words of a statute should

be understood acontextually, as we might understand them

knowing nothing about the situation the statute addresses

or, on the contrary, contextually, as most people would un-

derstand them in that situation. Perhaps for decades no one

doubts that courts may jail people who behave wickedly ac-

cording to the community’s popular morality, whether or

not their acts have been declared criminal by the legislature.

But there might be great disagreement during the same

years whether the courts can properly enforce a wealth tax

that was adopted after the wealth being taxed had been ac-

cumulated. This pattern of agreement and disagreement is

temporary, however. Suddenly what seemed unchallenge-

able 1s challenged, a new or even radical interpretation of

some important part of legal practice i1s developed in some-

one’s chambers or study which then finds favor within a
