122

CONVENTIONALISM

do this he must decide 1in each case what these conventions

declare the law to be; in order to do this he must decide what

the content of each convention really is. He must decide, for

example, whether 1t actually follows from the assumed con-

vention of legislation that Elmer has a right to his inherit-

ance because of the statute of wills, or from the putative

convention of precedent that Mrs. McLoughlin had a right

to compensation because of past judicial decisions.

But we have already noticed that judges and lawyers very

often disagree about the correct answer to questions like

these. They have different theories about how statutes and

past decisions should be read. The New York judges who sat

in Elmer’s case, for example, all agreed that they must not

disobey the decision of the legislature reported in the statute

of wills. But they disagreed about what this requirement ac-

tually requires when the “literal” meaning of a statute sug-

gests a result that strikes them as odd. Judicial disagreement

of this kind presents an immediate and obvious problem for

conventionalism. It shows that something more must be said

about what a convention is, about how much and what kind

of agreement is necessary in order that a particular proposi-

tion of law can be true in virtue of a particular legal conven-

tion.

When philosophers discuss conventions, they usually have

in mind very precise and limited ones. The most important

recent book on convention, for instance, discusses conven-

tions about which party should call back when a telephone

call is disconnected.” In the imaginary society of Chapter 2,

courtesy began as a set of conventions like that. People

obeyed flat rules about who takes off his hat in which cir-

cumstances. But when they began to take an interpretive at-

titude toward their conventional practices, the situation

became much more complicated. For then they disagreed

about what their conventions of courtesy “really” required.

And then their moral and political convictions were en-

gaged, not in contrast to the demands of convention, but just

in deciding what these demands were, properly understood.
