PRAGMATISM AND PERSONIFICATION

—_—

X

tempting to read the minds of the judges who decided it or

by any other process of divination. Nor does he feel com-

pelled to decide later cases “by analogy” to earlier ones, at

least when there i1s room for disagreement about whether a

later case is really like or unlike them.

Imagine a pragmatist judge deciding McLoughlin. He sets

aside the question whether there is any important diflerence

of principle between the case of a mother who suffers emo-

tional 1njury watching her child hit by a car and a mother

who suffers the same sort of injury seeing her child bloody in

a hospital. He insists that these two cases be divorced. There

1s direct precedent in the first case, and he knows that sound

strategy might require him to follow that precedent. There is

no direct precedent in the second, so he thinks himself free to

decide as he thinks best, on a fresh slate, whether or not there

is any difference in principle between the two cases. Linking

the two cases does not promote planning, since the link is in

any case controversial, and flexibility 1s improved by sep-

arating them. Once again, pragmatism can be defended as

providing a good fit with what judges actually do and say in

hard cases only if we assume that a pragmatist would have

noble-lie reasons for constructing and deferring to the best

account of the principle underlying past cases in these situa-

tions. Once again, this assumption is very implausible. The

public will not be outraged if it is told that precedents will

be confined to their facts. The general power of precedents to

guide behavior will not be much jeopardized if judges refuse

to follow them when the advice they give 1s garbled or

murky.

So pragmatism can be rescued as a good explanation for

our cross-section picture of adjudication only by procrustean

machinery that seems wildly inappropriate. It can be res-

cued only if we do not take judicial opinions at face value at

all; we must treat all the judges who worry about problemat-

1cal statutes and precedents as practicing some unmotivated

form of deception. They must be seen as inventing new rules

for the future in accordance with their convictions about
