STATUTES

F1e

and effective. His judgments will also be sensitive to his con-

victions about the relative importance of fairness, as he

conceives 1t, and certainty in legislation. He might be led

to prefer a more restrained account of whose intention

counts—eliminating, for example, both contemporary lob-

byists and later legislators who might have repealed the stat-

ute but did not—not because he believes a legislative process

fairer that ignores public pressure or 1s insensitive to change,

but because a wider account would make the 1dea of a legis-

lative intention too vague or formless to be of any practical

use in making ambiguous legislation clearer.

How Do They Combine?

Suppose Hermes decides in the end that only the intentions

of actual congressmen who voted for the statute when 1t was

adopted should count and that the intentions of all of them

should count equally. Now suppose he finds that the perti-

nent intentions differed even among this selected group. One

set of congressmen intended that the secretary have power to

halt any project whatsoever, another that he have power to

halt a project if that decision was not plainly unreasonable,

and a third that he have no power over any project begun

before he designated a species threatened by that project.

The speaker’s meaning theory requires Hermes to combine

these various opinions into some composite group intention.

Should he use a “majority intention” approach, so that the

institutional intention is that of whichever group, if any,

would have been large enough to pass the statute if that

group alone has voted for it>> Or a “plurality” intention

scheme, so that the opinion of the largest of the three groups

would count as the opinion of the legislature even if the

other two groups, taken together, were much larger? Or

some ‘‘representative intention’’ approach, which supposes a

mythical average or representative legislator whose opinion

comes closest to those of most legislators, though identical to

none of them? If the last, how is this mythical average legis-
