PRAGMATISM AND PERSONIFICATION

109

tion of community and cannot be reproduced by a reduc-

tive translation into claims about officials and citizens one

by one.

Suppose an automobile manufacturer produces defective

cars that cause terrible accidents in which hundreds of peo-

ple are killed. Set aside the question of law, whether the cor-

poration 1s guilty of a crime or legally responsible to

compensate victims or their families. And the question of ef-

ficiency, whether imposing such liability would reduce acci-

dents or contribute to a more efficient use of resources. We

are interested now in the question of moral responsibility.

What sense does it make to say that the corporation is

morally responsible to compensate victims from the corpo-

rate treasury, with the consequence that its shareholders

must bear the loss? We might proceed in the following way.

We bring to bear on the various officers and employees and

shareholders and others associated with the corporation our

ordinary standards of personal responsibility. We ask of each

person whether he did anything he should not have done

such that he should be blamed for the deaths that followed,

or whether he contributed to the accidents in such a way

that, blameworthy or not, he should bear some portion of

the damage or loss.

We might find someone to blame. Perhaps some employee

neglected an inspection, perhaps some officer approved a

design he should have known was faulty. Maybe the chief

executive officer or some member of the board of directors

had reason to doubt the standing procedures for reviewing

design and failed to improve them. But we might not find

anyone to blame. Perhaps no one acted in a way we can

judge wrong by personal standards of conduct. We would

then be unlikely to find any non-question-begging moral ar-

gument why a small shareholder should bear any part of the

loss himself. A shareholder is no part of the causal chain

leading to the accidents; he added no capital to the corpora-

tion’s resources just by buying its stock on the exchange.
