INTEGRITY IN LAW

237

ment that your formal convictions are actually soldered to

and driven by more substantive ones. Whenever you prefer a

reading of some text on substantive grounds, your formal

convictions automatically adjust to endorse it as a decent

reading of that text. You might, of course, only be pretend-

ing that this is so, in which case you are acting in bad faith.

But the adjustment may be unconscious, in which case you

think you are constrained but, in the sense that matters, you

actually are not. Whether any interpreter’s convictions ac-

tually check one another, as they must if he 1s genuinely in-

terpreting at all, depends on the complexity and structure of

his pertinent opinions as a whole.

Our chain-novel example has so far been distorted by the

unrealistic assumption that the text you were furnished

miraculously had the unity of something written by a single

author. Even 1f each of the previous novelists in the chain

took his responsibilities very seriously indeed, the text you

were given would show the marks of its history, and you

would have to tailor your style of interpretation to that cir-

cumstance. You might not find any interpretation that flows

through the text, that fits everything the material you have

been given treats as important. You must lower your sights

(as conscientious writers who join the team of an intermina-

ble soap opera might do) by trying to construct an interpre-

tation that fits the bulk of what you take to be artistically

most fundamental 1n the text. More than one interpretation

may survive this more relaxed test. To choose among these,

you must turn to your background aesthetic convictions, in-

cluding those you will regard as formal. Possibly no inter-

pretation will survive even the relaxed test. That is the

skeptical possibility I mentioned earlier: you will then end

by abandoning the project, rejecting your assignment as im-

possible. But you cannot know 1n advance that you will

reach that skeptical result. You must try first. The chain-

novel fantasy will be useful in the later argument in various

ways, but that 1s the most important lesson it teaches. The

wise-sounding judgment that no one interpretation could be
