220

INTEGRITY

liability. Consistency, narrowly understood, would have

required continuing that exception, but integrity con-

demns the special treatment of barristers unless it can be

justified in principle, which seems unlikely. The House of

Lords has now curtailed the exemption: to that extent it

has preferred integrity to narrow consistency.” Integrity will

not be satisfied, however, until the exemption is entirely

erased.

That observation might help to quiet a suspicion en-

couraged by the discussion so far. Integrity might seem too

conservative a basis for a conception of law, particularly in

contrast to pragmatism, its most powerful rival. The judge

who defers to integrity in deciding in favor of Mrs.

McLoughlin, in spite of his opinion that it would be better

to allow emotional damages to no one, seems timid beside

his pragmatist brother who sees no obstacles to making the

law better bit by bit. But once we grasp the difference be-

tween integrity and narrow consistency, this contrast be-

comes more complex. Integrity 1s a more dynamic and

radical standard than it first seemed, because it encourages a

judge to be wide-ranging and 1imaginative in his search for

coherence with fundamental principle. In some cases, as in

McLoughlin on the premises just assumed, the judge who

takes integrity as his model will indeed seem more cautious

than the pragmatist. But in other cases his decisions will

seem more radical.

Consider, for example, the Supreme Court’s decision in

Brown. A pragmatist justice of a general utilitarian cast of

mind would have asked himself whether a decision for the

plaintiff schoolchildren, based on the 1illegality of all official

segregation in schools, was really best for the future, all

things considered. He might well have decided that it was,

but he would have had to consider strong practical argu-

ments to the contrary. It was perfectly sensible to think that

such a dramatic change in the social structure of a large part

of the country, ordered by a court that is not responsible to

any electorate, would produce a backlash that would dam-
