THE COMMON LAW

284

in designing a law of accidents—are by and large the rules

Anglo-American judges constructed and debated in the for-

mative periods of the modern law of negligence, and these

rules still make up the main doctrines of accident law in

most jurisdictions. If it 1s true that a legislator dedicated to

the economic principle would have laid down the familiar

standards of our own legal practice, like the “reasonable

man’’ rule, and the rules about proximate causation, fore-

seeability, contributory negligence, comparative negligence,

and scope of damages, then the economic interpretation has

passed an important test. It meets a reasonable threshold re-

quirement of fit. Almost no one would claim a perfect fit, for

these rules vary, at least in detail, from jurisdiction to juris-

diction. Many prominent academic lawyers do claim a very

substantial fit, and that claim is hotly disputed. Critics of the

economic interpretation argue that on a more careful look,

the rules courts have developed about negligence and the

rest do not maximize community wealth, that a legislator

self-consciously dedicated to maximizing community wealth

would have chosen different rules.

The argument has

brought economic theory, and the appearance, at least, of

proficiency in formal economic analysis, into the pages of

e

law reviews and even into some judicial opinions.

Assume, for the sake of our general project, that the eco-

nomic interpretation fits accident law well enough to count

as a successful interpretation on that score. This does not

mean that past judges actually had wealth maximization in

mind. Whether the contributory negligence rule, for exam-

ple, maximizes community wealth depends on the most sub-

tle mathematical analyses, which very few of these judges

could even have understood. But an interpretation need not

be consistent with past judicial attitudes or opinions, with

how past judges saw what they were doing, in order to count

as an eligible interpretation of what they in fact did. Some

lawyers do think, as we noticed in Chapter 7, that an inter-

pretation is ineligible unless it is consistent with past judicial

rhetoric and opinion as well as actual decisions. But 1t seems
