102

JURISPRUDENCE REVISITED

understand it to argue that the legal practices so condemned

yield to no interpretation that can have, in any acceptable

political morality, any justifying power at all.

In the heyday of semantic theories, legal philosophers

were more troubled by the suggestion that wicked places

really had no law. Semantic rules were meant to capture the

use of “law’ generally and therefore to cover people’s state-

ments not only about their own law but about very different

historical and foreign legal systems as well. It was a common

argument against strong “natural law” theories, which claim

that a scheme of political organization must satisfy certain

minimal standards of justice in order to count as a legal sys-

tem at all, that our linguistic practice does not deny the title

of law to obviously immoral political systems. We say the

Nazis had law, even though it was very bad law. This fact

about our linguistic practice was widely thought to argue for

positivism, with 1ts axiom that the existence of law is inde-

pendent of the value of that law, in preference to any “natu-

ral law” theory.

If useful theories of law are not semantic theories of this

kind, however, but are instead interpretive of a particular

stage of a historically developing practice, then the prob-

lem of immoral legal systems has a different character. In-

terpretive theories are by their nature addressed to a particu-

lar legal culture, generally the culture to which their authors

belong. Unless these theories are deeply skeptical, they will

treat that legal system as a flourishing example of law, one

that calls for and rewards the interpretive attitude. The very

detailed and concrete legal theories lawyers and judges con-

struct for a particular jurisdiction, which extend into the

detail of its adjudicative practice, are of course very much

tied to that jurisdiction. The more abstract conceptions

of law that philosophers build are not. It would be suspici-

ous, even alarming, if conventionalism, for example, were

sald to be the most successtul general interpretation of

Rhode Island law but not of the law of Massachusetts or

Britain in the same period. But there is no reason to expect
