212

INTEGRITY

need not pause long over the de facto model of circumstance.

It violates even the first condition: it adds nothing, by way of

any special attitudes of concern, to the circumstances that

define a bare political community. It admits community

among people who have no interest in one another except as

means to their own selfish ends. Even when this form of com-

munity holds among selfless people who act only to secure

justice and fairness in the world as they understand these

virtues, they have no special concern for justice and fairness

toward fellow members of their own community. (Indeed,

since their only concern is abstract justice, which is univer-

salistic 1n 1ts character, they can have no basis for special

concern.)

The rulebook model of community might seem more

promising. For its members do show a special concern for

one another beyond each person’s general concern that jus-

tice be done according to his lights, a special concern that

each other person receive the full benefit of whatever politi-

cal decisions have in fact been taken under the standing po-

litical arrangements. That concern has the necessary

individualized character to satisty the second condition: it

runs separately from each person directly to everyone else.

But it cannot satisfy the third, for the concern it displays is

too shallow and attenuated to count as pervasive, indeed to

count as genuine concern at all. People in a rulebook com-

munity are free to act in politics almost as selfishly as people

in a community of circumstances can. Each one can use the

standing political machinery to advance his own interests or

1deals. True, once that machinery has generated a discrete

decision 1n the form of a rule of law or a judicial decision,

they will accept a special obligation to secure the enforce-

ment of that decision for everyone whom it happens to ben-

efit. But that commitment 1s too formal, too disconnected

from the actual circumstances it will promote, to count as

expressing much by way of genuine concern, and that is why

it rings hollow as an expression of fraternity. It takes hold too

late in the political process; it permits someone to act at the
