INTEGRITY

2XeYe

and protect political stability, but with the interpretive

question of what character of mutual concern and responsi-

bility our political practices must express 1n order to justify

the assumption of true community we seem to make.

A community’s political practices might aim to express

one of three general models of political association. Each

model describes the attitudes members of a political commu-

nity would self-consciously take toward one another if they

held the view of community the model expresses. The first

supposes that members of a community treat their associa-

tion as only a de facto accident of history and geography,

among other things, and so as not a true associative commu-

nity at all. People who think of their community this way

will not necessarily treat others only as means to their own

personal ends. That is one possibility: imagine two strangers

from nations that despise each other’s morals and religion

are washed up on a desert island after a naval battle between

the two countries. The strangers are thrown together ini-

tially by circumstance and nothing more. Each may need

the other and may refrain from killing him for that reason.

They may work out some division of labor, and each may

hold to the agreement so long as he thinks it 1s to his advan-

tage to do so, but not beyond that point or for any other

reason. But there are other possibilities for de facto associa-

tion. People might regard their political community as

merely de facto, not because they are selfish but because they

are driven by a passion for justice in the world as a whole

and see no distinction between their community and others.

A political official who takes that view will think of his con-

stituents as people he 1s in a position to help because he has

special means—those of his office—for helping them that are

not, regrettably, available for helping other groups. He will

think his responsibilities to his own community special in no

other way, and therefore not greater in principle. So when he

can 1mprove justice overall by subordinating the interests of

his own constituents, he will think it right to do so.

I call the second model of community the ‘“‘rulebook”
