INTEGRITY IN LAW

X3

can count as continuing the novel rather than beginning

ANCW.

He may find, not that no single interpretation fits the bulk

of the text, but that more than one does. The second dimen-

sion of interpretation then requires him to judge which of

these eligible readings makes the work in progress best, all

things considered. At this point his more substantive aes-

thetic judgments, about the importance or insight or realism

or beauty of different ideas the novel might be taken to

express, come into play. But the formal and structural con-

siderations that dominate on the first dimension figure on

the second as well, for even when neither of two interpreta-

tions 1s disqualified out of hand as explaining too little, one

may show the text in a better light because 1t fits more of the

text or provides a more interesting integration of style and

content. So the distinction between the two dimensions is

less crucial or profound than it might seem. It is a useful ana-

lytical device that helps us give structure to any interpreter’s

working theory or style. He will form a sense of when an in-

terpretation fits so poorly that 1t 1s unnecessary to consider

its substantive appeal, because he knows that this cannot

outweigh its embarrassments of fit in deciding whether it

makes the novel better, everything taken into account, than

its rivals. This sense will define the first dimension for him.

But he need not reduce his intuitive sense to any precise for-

mula; he would rarely need to decide whether some inter-

pretation barely survives or barely fails, because a bare

survivor, no matter how ambitious or interesting it claimed

the text to be, would almost certainly fail in the overall

comparison with other interpretations whose fit was evident.

We can now appreciate the range of different kinds of

judgments that are blended in this overall comparison.

Judgments about textual coherence and integrity, reflecting

different formal literary values, are interwoven with more

substantive aesthetic judgments that themselves assume dif-

ferent literary aims. Yet these various kinds of judgments, of

each general kind, remain distinct enough to check one an-
