THE COMMON LAW

281

the optimal speed for the Vulcan Express over its route, that

might be very much the wrong speed to choose for the Thor

Flyer, which runs through very different terrain.

Perhaps a Herculean legislator with an adequate timeta-

ble could set the optimal speed for each train separately. But

any rules even he designs that way will soon be obsolete. For

the optimal speed will depend on technology, which

changes, on the enormously complex economics of passenger

and freight transportation, and on the price of grain, among

other fluctuating data. Besides, the problem of trains trav-

eling next to crops likely to be burned by their sparks is only

one example of the kind of conflict we are now considering.

There are countless other kinds of circumstances in which

one person, pursuing an otherwise lawful activity, may cause

unintended damage to someone else. A musician plays rock

music when his neighbor is trying to study algebra. A poet

thunders his Maserati along country lanes where people

walk. A builder digs out foundations on his own site and ac-

cidentally cuts an underground power line running to some-

one else’s factory some distance away. A statesman who

wants the law that governs these different forms of unin-

tended damage to increase overall community wealth needs

a general rule of the following kind. Anyone whose activity

causes unintended damage to anyone else’s person or goods

will be liable for that damage if his activity was, under the

circumstances, unreasonable, and an activity 1s unreason-

able if the marginal cost to the actor of avoiding the activity

1s less than the cost of the damage the activity threatens to

cause others.

This general and abstract rule forces people in the position

of the train companies to calculate for themselves the bal-

ance of social cost in deciding, for example, how fast to drive

each of their trains and to recalculate that balance from time

to time as technology and various components of supply and

demand change. But there i1s a certain danger latent in this

rule. Our legislator does not want people to spend too much

time or money trying to calculate the full economic conse-
