428

NOTES TO PAGES g1-g2

convictions would be different had I been raised very differently or

in very different times does not in itself show any defect in the cul-

ture and training and processes of reflection and observation that

finally produced the convictions I now have. It may—it should—

make me cautious about these convictions, force me to ask

whether I have any genuine reasons for thinking as I do. It may

lead me to notice connections between my community’s moral as-

sumptions and its structures of economic and other power, and

noticing these connections might weaken the hold my convictions

formerly had on me. All these are possible consequences of my

coming to see that I am a creature of culture, but they are conse-

quences of seeing more than just this, and more is necessary if the

insight is to finish in any sort of internal skepticism.

The argument from causation I just described is often thought a

good argument for some form of external skepticism. (See Wil-

liams, supra n. 24. The relevance of the causal argument to moral-

ity 1s undercut, however, by the fact that, if we believe slavery is

wrong, we cannot imagine a world different from ours only in the

single respect that slavery is not wrong.) But we are not concerned

with the merits of external skepticism here. We are concerned with

objections to the common view that one moral conviction may be

better than, not merely different from, others it contradicts, that it

may be the right answer and they wrong answers. The text argues

that that view is itself a moral view, that it is an essential part of

the moral convictions it inhabits. A moral view can be damaged

only by moral argument. So the skepticism we fear is internal

skepticism, and the argument from causation, by itself, has no ter-

ror. I know that my opinions would be different if I had lived in

very different times. But I think the convictions 1 have better as

well as different, and no causal explanation can force me to aban-

don that view, though of course a moral argument might.

3. JURISPRUDENCE REVISITED

1. The most systematic discussion of criteria essential to the ex-

istence of a legal system is found in Joseph Raz, The Concept of a

Legal System (2nd ed., Oxford, 1980).

2. A classic of jurisprudence argues that statutes are not law.

J. C. Gray, The Nature and Sources of the Law (Boston, 19o2).
