JURISPRUDENCE REVISITED

103

even a very abstract conception to fit foreign legal systems

developed in and reflecting political ideologies of a sharply

different character. On the contrary. If a supportive concep-

tion of law offers to find in the general structure of a particu-

lar community’s legal practice a political justification of

coercion, then it should not be supportive, but 1n some way

skeptical, about legal systems that lack features essential to

that justification.

But it does not follow that if a lawyer finds the best inter-

pretation of Anglo-American law in some feature the Nazi

regime wholly lacked, he must then deny that the Nazis had

law. His theory is not a semantic theory about all uses of the

word ‘“law” but an interpretive theory about the conse-

quences of taking the interpretive attitude toward his own

legal system. He may, with perfect linguistic propriety, insist

that the Nazis did have law. We would know what he

meant. His claim would be like the judgment I mentioned

earlier, that very different stages of courtesy are yet stages of

the same institution, or can be seen to be if we wish. He

would mean that the Nazi system can be recognized as a

strand 1n the rope, one historical realization of the general

practices and Institutions from which our own legal culture

also developed. It i1s law, that is, in what we have been call-

ing the “preinterpretive’ sense.

So once the semantic sting i1s drawn, we need not worry so

much about the right answer to the question whether im-

moral legal systems really count as law. Or rather we should

worry about this in a difterent, more substantive way. For

our language and i1diom are rich enough to allow a great

deal of discrimination and choice in the words we pick to say

what we want to say, and our choice will therefore depend

on the question we are trying to answer, our audience, and

the context in which we speak. We need not deny that the

Nazi system was an example of law, no matter which inter-

pretation we favor of our own law, because there is an avail-

able sense in which it plainly was law. But we have no

difficulty in understanding someone who does say that Nazi
