INTEGRITY IN LAW

250

convictions, namely his convictions about how a decent gov-

ernment committed to both fairness and justice should ad-

judicate between the two in this sort of case.

Judges will have different ideas of fairness, about the role

each citizen’s opinion should ideally play in the state’s deci-

sion about which principles of justice to enforce through its

central police power. They will have different higher-level

opinions about the best resolution of conflicts between these

two political ideals. No judge is likely to hold the simplistic

theory that fairness is automatically to be preferred to justice

or vice versa. Most judges will think that the balance be-

tween the opinions of the community and the demands of

abstract justice must be struck differently in different kinds

of cases. Perhaps in ordinary commercial or private law

cases, like McLoughlin, an interpretation supported in popu-

lar morality will be deemed superior to one that is not, pro-

vided it i1s not thought very much inferior as a matter of

abstract justice. But many judges will think the interpretive

force of popular morality very much weaker in constitu-

tional cases like Brown, because they will think the point of

the Constitution is 1n part to protect individuals from what

the majority thinks right."

Local Prionity

I must call special attention to a feature of Hercules’ practice

that has not yet clearly emerged. His judgments of fit ex-

pand out from the immediate case before him in a series of

concentric circles. He asks which interpretations on his ini-

tial list fit past emotional injury cases, then which ones fit

cases of accidental damage to the person more generally,

then which fit damage to economic interests, and so on into

areas each further and further from the original McLoughlin

issue. This procedure gives a kind of local priority to what

we might call “departments” of law. If Hercules finds that

neither of two principles is flatly contradicted by the acci-

dental damage cases of his jurisdiction, he expands his study
