STATUTES

SRR

and opened. She has obviously made some mistake of fact:

~he¢ may not have realized, for example, that the dam would

wipe out that fish’s only beds. Once we know she has made a

[actual mistake of that character, we think it right to say

that her concrete conviction, that the dam should be opened,

is 1in conflict with her more abstract one, that species should

he saved at all but the greatest cost. Now consider this ab-

surd objection to that conclusion. “Smith’s opinions are not

in conflict, because her first conviction does not condemn all

acts that actually threaten species but only acts she thinks

threaten species. So though she has made some mistake

about the impact of the dam on the snail darter, she is not

cuilty of any contradiction, and Hermes serves her convic-

tions only by allowing the dam to be opened.” The absur-

dity lies in the view this objection takes of the content of a

conviction. We can say that Smith knows she 1s opposed only

to acts she thinks threaten species; we mean that these are

the only acts she realizes her convictions condemn. But 1t is

wrong to report her conviction itself—the meaning it has for

her—as the conviction that only acts she believes threaten

species are wrong. Nothing counts as someone’s conviction

unless he recognizes that what actually follows from it de-

pends on what is in fact true, not on what he thinks is true.

The contrast between knowledge and conviction is crucial

here. Compare the following two arguments. (1) Oedipus

killed the man he met at the crossroads. The man he met at

the crossroads was his father. So Oedipus killed his father.

(2) Oedipus knew he was killing the man he met at the cross-

roads. The man he met at the crossroads was his father. So

()edipus knew he was killing his father. The first argument is

valid, but the second is not, because we cannot substitute

different descriptions, even though they refer to the same

thing, in propositions describing what someone thought or

knew rather than what he did. (Philosophers call contexts of

thought or knowledge “opaque” rather than *“‘transparent”

contexts.)® The following argument is invalid for the same

rcason: since Smith believes that projects that threaten spe-
