INTEGRITY IN LAW

274

pretive claim 1s powerful and germane, however, only if it

begins where Hercules begins: it must claim to have looked

for a less skeptical interpretation and failed. Nothing is eas-

ler or more pointless than demonstrating that a flawed and

contradictory account fits as well as a smoother and more

attractive one. The internal skeptic must show that the

flawed and contradictory account is the only one available.

Liberalism and Contradiction

Is there a quick route to that ambitious negative claim? Crit-

ical legal studies purports to find one in what 1t takes to be

the philosophical faults of liberal political theory. This ar-

gument has two steps. It claims, first, that the constitutional

structure and main doctrinal lines of modern Western de-

mocracies can be justified only as an elaboration of a funda-

mentally liberal view of personality and community. It

insists that the distinction between adjudication and legisla-

tion, which is prominent in that structure, reflects a liberal

conception of freedom; it points to those features of the pri-

vate law of contract, tort, and property, for example, that

enforce liberal ideals of individual responsibility. It argues,

second, that liberalism, as a philosophical system combining

metaphysical and ethical ideas, 1s profoundly self-contradic-

tory and that the contradictions of liberalism therefore

ensure the chaos and contradiction of any available

interpretation of our law, the doom of Hercules’ project.

This 1s an exciting argument, and anyone drawn to liber-

alism will find its first step compelling. Arguments for its sec-

ond step, however, about the incoherence of liberalism, have

so far been spectacular and even embarrassing failures. They

begin and end in a defective account of what liberalism is,

an account supported by no plausible reading of the philoso-

19

phers they count as liberals.

They seem wholly to ignore, moreover, the distinction we

have just found crucial to any internally skeptical argument,

the distinction between competition and contradiction in
