CONVENTIONALISM

K

law must worry about consistency in strategy. He must be

careful that the new rules he lays down fit well enough with

rules established by others or likely to be established 1n the

future that the total set of rules will work together and make

the situation better rather than pulling in opposite direc-

tions and making 1t worse.

A conventionalist judge exercising his discretion to make

new law must pay particular attention to this danger be-

cause his power to change existing law is very limited. Sup-

pose that before he looks to the legal record he thinks it

would be best to decide for the defendant in McLoughlin be-

cause it would be cheaper for the community as a whole if

prospective victims insure against emotional injury than if

drivers insure against causing it. But when he discovers from

his review of the precedents that mothers already have a

legal right to compensation for emotional injury suffered on

a direct view of the accident, and therefore that drivers must

already insure against causing emotional damage in those

circumstances, the question of insurance costs becomes more

complex. He must now ask whether, given that drivers must

insure anyway, it would be more or less expensive to force

potential victims to insure against emotional injury in the

very special circumstances of Mrs. McLoughlin’s case, and

he might well decide that splitting the risk in this particular

way would be so inefficient as to offset the gains from assign-

ing this part of the risk to the victims. We have, 1n this sim-

ple example, a paradigm case of a legislative judgment

dominated by consistency in strategy.

But consistency in strategy would not require a judge to

probe the past to discover the “best” interpretation of a stat-

ute or the Constitution when this is controversial or the

“correct” account of a past judicial decision when lawyers

disagree how it should be read. For a statute or a past deci-

sion poses problems of consistency in strategy only when it

has assigned people legal rights that a judge forming a new

rule is for some reason powerless to change, rights that would

work badly with the new rights he wants to create. The con-
