INTEGRITY IN LAW

R

Hercules begins testing each interpretation on his short

list by asking whether a single political official could have

given the verdicts of the precedent cases if that official were

consciously and coherently enforcing the principles that

form the interpretation. He will therefore dismiss interpreta-

tion (1) at once. No one who believed that people never have

rights to compensation for emotional injury could have

reached the results of those past decisions cited in McLoughlin

that allowed compensation. Hercules will also dismiss inter-

pretation (2), though for a different reason. Unlike (1), (2)

fits the past decisions; someone who accepted (2) as a stan-

dard would have reached these decisions, because they all

allowed recovery for emotional injury at the scene and none

allowed recovery for injury away from it. But (2) fails as an

interpretation of the required kind because it does not state a

principle of justice at all. It draws a line that it leaves arbi-

trary and unconnected to any more general moral or politi-

cal consideration.

What about (3)? It might fit the past decisions, but only in

the following way. Hercules might discover through eco-

nomic analysis that someone who accepted the economic

theory expressed by (3) and who wished to reduce the com-

munity’s accident costs would have made just those deci-

sions. But it is far from obvious that (3) states any principle

of justice or fairness. Remember the distinction between

principles and policies we discussed toward the end of the

last chapter. (3) supposes that it is desirable to reduce acci-

dent costs overall. Why? Two explanations are possible. The

first insists that people have a right to compensation when-

ever a rule awarding compensation would produce more

wealth for the community overall than a rule denying it.

This has the form, at least, of a principle because i1t describes

a general right everyone is supposed to have. I shall not ask

Hercules to consider (3) understood in that way now, be-

cause he will study it very carefully in Chapter 8. The sec-

S PYefefeN i

that

ks

1S

ond, quite different,

explanation

sometimes or even always in the community’s general inter-
