THE COMMON

LAW

289

late markets and make the community richer 1n that way,

not because a richer community is necessarily happier on av-

erage but because 1t generalily 1s, and because no other prac-

tical code of responsibility could be expected to do better for

average happiness. The utilitarian argument concedes that

people have no ultimate or fundamental duty to maximize

community wealth; 1t proposes that the best practical real-

1zation of the duty they do have, the duty to maximize hap-

piness, 1s achieved by their acting as if they did have a duty

to maximize wealth.

We must study this argument in stages, beginning with its

third step. This declares that if citizens accept and follow

market-simulating, and therefore wealth-maximizing, rules

in deciding what risks to run of injuring others and when to

take financial responsibility for the injuries they do cause,

this practice will improve the average happiness of citizens

in the long run. That is not a claim about the immediate

consequences of particular acts considered one by one. Some

market-simulating decisions, in and of themselves, will prob-

ably decrease overall happiness. But according to this view,

general happiness is increased in the long run if everyone

follows such rules in the cases we are considering. History

provides no useful evidence for this supposition. It does not

confirm that the best way to make a community happier on

average 1s to make 1t richer on the whole with no direct con-

straints of distribution; that thesis remains an article of faith

more popular among the rich than the poor. No doubt peo-

ple on average have better lives, at least according to con-

ventional views of what makes a life better, in prosperous

nations than in very poor ones. But the present question is

different. Do we have any reason to think that average hap-

piness 1s generally improved in prosperous nations by still

more prosperity, measured by the sums its citizens are collec-

tively willing and able to pay for the goods they make and

trade? Or that happiness could not be improved even more if

citizens accepted other standards of personal responsibility,
