200

INTEGRITY

necessary basis for my continuing to recognize fraternal ob-

ligations toward him.

Third, members must see these responsibilities as flowing

from a more general responsibility each has of concern for the

well-being of others in the group; they must treat discrete

obligations that arise only under special circumstances, like

the obligation to help a friend who is in great financial need,

as derivative from and expressing a more general responsibil-

1ty active throughout the association in different ways. A

commercial partnership or joint enterprise, conceived as a

fraternal association, is in that way different from even a

long-standing contractual relationship. The former has a life

of its own: each partner is concerned not just to keep explicit

agreements hammered out at arm’s length but to approach

each 1ssue that arises in their joint commercial life in a man-

ner reflecting special concern for his partner as partner. Dif-

ferent forms of association presuppose different kinds of

general concern each member 1s assumed to have for others.

The level of concern 1s different—I need not act toward my

partner as if I thought his welfare as important as my

son’s—and also 1ts range: my concern for my union

“brother” 1s general across the economic and productive life

we share but does not extend to his success in social life, as

my concern for my biological brother does. (Of course my

union colleague may be my friend as well, in which case my

overall responsibilities to him will be aggregative and com-

plex.) But within the form or mode of life constituted by a

communal practice, the concern must be general and must

provide the foundation for the more discrete responsibilities.

Fourth, members must suppose that the group’s practices

show not only concern but an equal concern for all members.

Fraternal associations are in that sense conceptually egali-

tarian. They may be structured, even hierarchical, in the

way a family is, but the structure and hierarchy must reflect

the group’s assumption that its roles and rules are equally in

the interests of all, that no one’s life i1s more important than
