NOTES TO PAGES 64-66

423

Law fournal 1017, 1021 [1981].) We cannot hope to grasp what

caste means to people none of whom are troubled by it, any more

than we can understand someone who says he is in pain and not

only doesn’t mind but doesn’t see why anyone should. If we can

accept, however, that cultures and ages can have a kind of endur-

ing consciousness, and that histery itself has its own embracing

mental life, people of one period can hope to understand people of

another because they all participate in a common consciousness

with enduring meanings they share. This ambitious 1dea abstracts

from the conversational acts of particular people, expressing their

individual interests and assumptions, into purposes and motives of

larger social units, ultimately of life or mind itself.

I cannot discuss here either the ontology of group spirit or the

validity of the suggestion that group spirit offers a solution to the

problem of cultural 1solation. (See the citations to Dilthey, Ga-

2

damer, and Habermas, supra n.

oI

) It 1s worth noticing, however,

that the problem is vicious and threatening only 1if conversational

interpretation rather than constructive interpretation 1s in ques-

tion. When 1t is appropriate to take the interpretive attitude I de-

scribe 1n the text toward some diflerent culture (see the discussion

of foreign and wicked legal systems in Chapter 3, for example) we

try to understand it not conversationally but making of it the best,

given our purposes and convictions, it can be. If we think that goal

requires us to discover or adopt the actual convictions, which

might not be ours, of historical actors, the problem of isolation re-

mains. We may not be able sensibly to attribute to Shakespeare

even the relatively abstract intention of arousing, among his con-

temporaries, a particular complex reaction to Shylock. But these

problems, when they are serious, become reasons for tailoring the

demands of constructive interpretation to what we can achieve, to

finding some dimension of value in theater that allows us to make

the best we can of The Merchant of Venice (or the Germanic anteced-

ents of the common law) without doubtful speculation about

states of mind closed off to us by cultural barniers. For in con-

structive interpretation historical intentions are not the constitu-

tive foundations of interpretive understanding. Failure to retrieve

them is not an interpretive disaster, because there are other ways,

and often much better ways, of finding value in traditions we have

joined.

16. For an extended discussion of this distinction, and of cre-
