INTEGRITY IN LAW

267

law as integrity or to Hercules’ methods of adjudication

under it. I have been careful, as I just said, to describe law as

integrity in a manner that is impeccable from the external

skeptic’s point of view. I described the questions which, ac-

cording to that conception of law, judges should put to

themselves and answer from their own convictions. External

skepticism does not deny that these questions make sense;

the external skeptic will have his own answers to them,

which he will prefer to those of others, and he can play Her-

cules as well as any of his philosophical opponents can. He

only objects to what he believes is a bad description of the

process—that it seeks to discover interpretive or moral truths

“out there” or ‘““‘locked into the fabric of the universe.” But

these metaphors are treacherous representations of what

someone means who says, for example, that the principles of

interpretation (5) are really better than those of interpreta-

tion (6); that claim is a clarification of his interpretive opin-

ion, not a philosophical classification of it. So Hercules

might agree never to use the nearly redundant words “ob-

jective” or “really” to decorate his judgments, which have

the same meaning for him without these words, and external

skeptics would then have no further complaint or argument

against his way of deciding McLoughlin.

I admitted, however, that internal skepticism offers a

much more powerful challenge to our project, and I shall use

a new critic to develop and assess that suggestion. What

forms might his internal skepticism take? There are several

possibilities. He might agree, for example, that interpreta-

tions (5) and (6) both pass the appropriate threshold test of

fit, but he might deny that either is superior to the other in

political morality because both are morally wrong or irrele-

vant in some fundamental way. But that argument seems

implausible. Perhaps he rejects the very idea of liability in

negligence altogether; he thinks that no one does wrong ex-

cept maliciously. This would not justify local skepticism

about interpretations (5) and (6), however; it endorses (6) as

superior to (5), however dubious in itself. So we must imag-
