INTEGRITY IN LAW

209

dents and neither fits the bulk of these. He responds by ex-

panding his range and seeking a more general interpretation

of the law of accidents that 1solates and limits this contra-

diction. He proposes this account: “Our law as a whole rec-

ognizes two principles as pertinent to the loss people should

be permitted to suffer through accidents. The first is a prin-

ciple of collective sympathy. It holds that the state should

try to protect people from being ruined by accidents even

when the accident 1s their own fault. This principle is most

apparent in regulative safety programs of different sorts, in

workmen’s compensation statutes and in state-subsidized

schemes of insurance for risks to property and person not ad-

equately covered in the private insurance market. The sec-

ond 1s a principle apportioning the costs of an accident

among the private actors in the drama that produced it. It

holds that accidental loss should be borne by the person at

fault, not the innocent victim. This principle is most evi-

dently at work in negligence law, including legislative

amendments or supplements to the common law of negli-

gence.

““I'hese are independent principles and it would be a seri-

ous misunderstanding of the logic of principle to consider

them contradictory. There is no incoherence in recognizing

both as principles; on the contrary, any moral vision would

be defective if it wholly disowned either impulse. But in

some cases they will conflict, and coherence does then re-

quire some nonarbitrary scheme of priority or weighting or

accommodation between the two, a scheme that reflects

their respective sources in a deeper level of political morality.

An accident in which the negligent actor would be ruined if

he were liable for all the damage he caused is an example of

such conflict. The first principle urges the state to protect

him from catastrophic loss because his liability would then

be as much an accident for him, although his fault, as an in-

dustrial accident that was the fault of its victim. The second

principle declares, however, that if either of the two actors in

the drama 1s to sufler, it must be the actor at fault. It urges
