LAW BEYOND LAW

RS

convictions about fairness and justice and procedural due

process contest with one another. The interpretive judgment

must notice and take account of these several dimensions; if

it does not, it i1s incompetent or in bad faith, ordinary politics

in disguise. But it must also meld these dimensions into an

overall opinion: about which interpretation, all things con-

sidered, makes the community’s legal record the best it can

be from the point of view of political morality. So legal

judgments are pervasively contestable.

That is the story told by law as integrity. I believe it pro-

vides a better account of our law than conventionalism or

pragmatism on each of the two main dimensions of interpre-

tation, so no trade-off between these dimensions is necessary

at the level at which integrity competes with other concep-

tions. Law as integrity, that 1s, provides both a better fit with

and a better justification of our legal practice as a whole. 1

argued the claim of justification by identifying and studying

integrity as a distinct virtue of ordinary politics, standing

beside and somctimes conflicting with the more familiar vir-

tues of justice and fairness. We should accept integrity as a

virtue of ordinary politics because we should try to conceive

our political community as an association of principle; we

should aim at this because, among other reasons, that con-

ception of community ofters an attractive basis for claims

of political legitimacy 1n a community of free and indepen-

dent people who disagree about political morality and wis-

dom.

I argued the first claim—that law as integrity provides an

1lluminating fit with our legal practice—by showing how an

ideal judge committed to law as integrity would decide three

types of hard cases: at common law, under statutes, and, in

the United States, under the Constitution. I made Hercules

decide the several cases 1 offered as working examples in

Chapter 1, and my claims of fit can be checked by compar-

ing his rcasoning with the kind of arguments that seemed

appropriate to lawyers and judges on both sides of those

cases. But this 1s too limited a test to be decisive; law stu-
