RS

CONVENTIONALISM

killing we do, that fact is not our dominant reason for acting

as we think we should.

Our new argument for the political virtues of convention-

alism uses these distinctions to show why the line this theory

draws between cases decided by law and cases calling for ju-

dicial legislation strikes the right balance between predict-

ability and flexibility. “It 1s very often the case that

agreement in the rules of private law 1s more important than

what rules these are, at least within broad limits. It 1s desir-

able to have conventional procedures like legislation and

precedent so that people may rely on whatever decisions are

actually reached through these procedures. It might be very

important, for example, that it be settled, and settled deci-

sively, whether and when careless drivers are liable for emo-

tional 1njury to people other than their immediate victims.

Insurers can then fix premiums intelligently, and people can

make intelligent decisions about what kind and how much

insurance to buy and what risks to run. That does not mean

it makes no difference to social welfare which rules we settle

upon. Rules of liability are not like rules of the road. It

might be more or less efficient or more or less fair to assign

liability to one party or the other, and this is why it i1s im-

portant that the legislature or the courts, whichever first

have occasion to set the rule, make the right substantive de-

cision. But once some set of rules has been established 1n this

way, we might well think 1t more important that these rules

be publicly regarded as settled, so that people can plan ac-

cordingly, than that they be the best rules that could have

been found; this provides a reason why courts should leave

the rule untouched even when they think the wrong choice

was made 1n the first instance.”

Now suppose a unilateralist were to object that since coor-

dination is so important in this area, convention should be

allowed to occupy the whole area in the way he recom-

mends. We should take it as settled that drivers are liable

only for such damage as has been explicitly stipulated in

clear statutes, so that drivers and potential victims can in-
