Vi

WHAT IS LAW?

uncontroversial examples of art like painting and sculpture.

They might agree that photography is not fully or centrally

an art form in the way these other activities are; they might

agree, that is, that photography is at most a borderline case

of an art. Then they would probably also agree that the de-

cision whether to place photography within or outside that

category is finally arbitrary, that it should be taken one way

or another for convenience or ease of exposition, but that

there 1s otherwise no genuine issue to debate whether pho-

tography is “really” an art. Now consider an entirely differ-

ent kind of debate. One group argues that (whatever others

think) photography is a central example of an art form, that

any other view would show a deep misunderstanding of the

essential nature of art. The other takes the contrary position

that any sound understanding of the character of art shows

photography to fall wholly outside 1t, that photographic

techniques are deeply alien to the aims of art. It would be

quite wrong In these circumstances to describe the argument

as one over where some borderline should be drawn. The ar-

gument would be about what art, properly understood,

really is; it would reveal that the two groups had very differ-

ent ideas about why even standard art forms they both rec-

ognize—painting and sculpture—can claim that title.

You might think that the second argument I just de-

scribed 1s silly, a corruption of scholarship. But whatever you

35

and they are

think, arguments of that character do occur,

different from arguments of the first kind. It would be a seri-

ous misunderstanding to conflate the two or to say that one

1s only a special case of the other. The “sophisticated” de-

fense of positivism misunderstands judicial practice in just

that way. The various judges and lawyers who argued our

sample cases did not think they were defending marginal or

borderline claims. Their disagreements about legislation and

precedent were fundamental; their arguments showed that

they disagreed not only about whether Elmer should have

his inheritance, but about why any legislative act, even traf-

fic codes and rates of taxation, impose the rights and obliga-
