ISR

JURISPRUDENCE REVISITED

agreement across the field of further controversy that law

provides a justification in principle for official coercion. There

is nothing absolute in that statement of the concept. It sup-

poses only that in a flourishing legal system the fact of law

provides a case for coercion that must stand unless some ex-

ceptional counterargument is available. If even that quali-

fied claim cannot be made—if the fact of law provides no

general case that can be overridden only by special circum-

stance—then only a skeptical conception of that legal system

1s appropriate. So much belongs, on the present hypothesis,

to our concept of law: it leaves the connection between law

and coercion at that abstract level. Any full theory of law,

however, must be much more concrete. It must say much

more about the kind of exceptional circumstance that might

defeat law’s case for coercion even in a flourishing system,

more about when, if ever, officials may properly ignore the

law, and more about what residuary obligations, if any, arise

when they do.

A tull political theory of law, then, includes at least two

main parts: 1t speaks both to the grounds of law—circum-

stances In which particular propositions of law should be

taken to be sound or true—and to the force of law—the rela-

tive power of any true proposition of law to justify coercion

in different sorts of exceptional circumstance. These two

parts must be mutually supportive. The attitude a full the-

ory takes up on the question how far law 1s commanding,

and when 1t may or should be set aside, must match the gen-

eral justification it offers for law’s coercive mandate, which

in turn 1s drawn from its views about the controversial

grounds of law. A general theory of law therefore proposes a

solution to a complex set of simultaneous equations. When

we compare two theories, we must take into account both

parts of each in judging how far they differ in their overall

practical consequences.

But this complexity poses a serious practical problem. All

of us, but especially lawyers, develop attitudes toward law

along with the rest of our general social knowledge, unself-
