INTEGRITY

Rt

of constitutional law, for the equal protection clause of the

Fourteenth Amendment 1s now understood to outlaw inter-

nal compromises over important matters of principle. The

Supreme Court relies on the language of equal protection to

strike down state legislation that recognizes fundamental

rights for some and not others. The Constitution requires

states to extend to all citizens certain rights—the right to free

speech, for example—but leaves them free to recognize

other, nonconstitutionally required rights 1f they wish. If a

state accepts one of these nonconstitutionally required rights

for one class of citizens, however, it must do so for all.'’ The

Supreme Court’s controversial 1979 abortion ruling, for ex-

ample, allows states to prohibit abortions altogether in the

last trimester of pregnancy.'' But the Court would not allow

a state to prohibit an abortion in the last trimester only to

women born in even years.

This connection between integrity and the rhetoric of

equal protection is revealing. We 1nsist on integrity because

we believe that internal compromises would deny what is

often called “equality before the law” and sometimes “for-

mal equality.” It has become fashionable to say that this

kind of equality is unimportant because it offers little pro-

tection against tyranny. This denigration assumes, however,

that formal equality i1s only a matter of enforcing the rules,

whatever they are, that have been laid down in legislation,

in the spirit of conventionalism. The equal protection cases

show how important formal equality becomes when 1t 1s un-

derstood to require integrity as well as bare logical consis-

tency, when it demands fidelity not just to rules but to the

theories of fairness and justice that these rules presuppose by

way of justification.

We can find another lesson about the dimensions of integ-

rity in the constitutional system of the United States, a les-

son that will prove important later in this chapter. Integrity

holds within political communities, not among them, so any

opinion we have about the scope of the requirement of co-

herence makes assumptions about the size and character of
