STATUTES

351

might say, enforce itself. But how does he decide whether it

1s clear, in which case he has nothing more to do, or unclear,

in which case he must deploy the complex and politically

sophisticated apparatus I just sketched? That now seems a

very important distinction. How should 1t be drawn?

It need not be drawn at all. The distinction I relied on 1s

just an expository device that need be given no place in Her-

cules’ final developed theory. Notice the different ways or

senses in which the text of a statute might be said to be un-

clear. It might contain an ambiguous word whose meaning

1s not decisively resolved by the context. It might declare, for

example, that it shall be a crime to be found within fifty

yards of a bank after dark, with nothing to indicate whether

the bank in question is a building where money 1s stored or a

place by the side of a river. It might contain a vague word

that in practice cannot remain vague: it might declare, for

example, that old people are exempt from income tax. It

might use an abstract word, like “reasonable” or “fair,” such

that people can be expected to disagree whether some deci-

sion or act meets the standard the abstract word 1s used to

state. These are familiar types or occasions of linguistic un-

clarity. None of them fits the two cases we have taken as our

leading examples of problems in the application of statutes.

[n both Elmer’s case and the snail darter case judges dis-

agreed about how a statute should be read, and law students

and scholars continue to disagree. But we cannot locate the

unclarity of the text in the ambiguity or vagueness or ab-

straction of any particular word or phrase in the statutes

that provoked these cases.

Is the statute of wills unclear on the question whether

murderers may inherit? If we find it so, this can only be be-

cause we ourselves have some reason to think that murderers

should not inherit. No language in the New York statute of

wills specifically declares that blue-eyed people may inherit,

yet no one thinks the statute is unclear on the question

whether they can. Why is it different with murderers—or

rather why was it different when Elmer’s case was decided?
