CONVENTIONALISM

129

ous legal conventions contains nothing decisive either way,

and the judge therefore must exercise his discretion by em-

ploying extralegal standards. But it may now be said that, so

far from being a depressing conclusion, this states precisely

the practical importance of conventionalism for adjudica-

tion. On this account the positive part of that conception is

the huge mass of the iceberg that lies beneath the surface of

legal practice. This explains why cases do not come to court

when the conditions of my comically weak description of the

explicit extension of our legal conventions are met, which 1is

most of the time. In hard cases, on the other hand, the nega-

tive part holds the stage. It tells judges that when statutes

are disputed and precedents are of uncertain impact, they

should set aside any 1dea that their decision can rest on

rights alrcady established through past political acts. They

should face up to their fresh legislative responsibilities can-

didly.

In any case 1t 1s the strict version of conventionalism that

we must test as a genceral interpretation of our legal practice.

Strict conventionalism claims that judges are liberated from

legislation and precedent in hard cases because the explicit

extension of these legal conventions is not sufficiently dense

to decide those cases. We must ask how well this interpretive

claim fits our sample cases. But we should at least notice how

the new emphasis on the negative part of conventionalism

deflates the hypothesis I mentioned earlier, that the negative

part supports the political 1deal of protected expectations by

marking off cases in which that ideal cannot be satisfied. As

the positive part of conventionalism shrinks in practical im-

portance in court, because there are so few occasions for

judges to rely on law as conventionalism construes this, so

this particular defense of the negative part becomes weaker,

for the exceptions steadily eat up the rule. If all the cases that

attract attention, because they are argued in important ap-

pellate courts before public scrutiny, are occasions on which

judges are scrupulous in denying that they are serving the

goal of protected expectations through their decisions, this
