356

THE CONSTITUTION

among different institutions about the limits of their consti-

tutional jurisdiction rather than as a source of the authority

of one of these institutions, the courts, to fix those limits for

the rest. In 1803 the Supreme Court seized an opportunity to

reject that weaker role.' Chief Justice John Marshall said

that the Court’s power and duty to enforce the Constitution

followed from that document’s own declaration that the

Constitution was the supreme /aw of the land.

Marshall has often been accused, in the long debates that

continue yet, of begging all the important questions. That

charge 1s easy to sustain under the plain-fact picture of law

we considered and rejected early in this book, the picture

that insists on a firm analytical distinction between legal

questions about what the law is and political questions

about whether courts should enforce the law. If this distinc-

tion were sound, then of course we could not drag any con-

clusion about what any court should do from the proposition

that American law includes the Constitution, which is only a

statement about what the law 1s. Law as integrity, on the

contrary, supports Marshall’s argument. He was right to

think that the most plausible interpretation of the devel-

oping legal practices of the young country, as well as of its

colonial and British roots, supposed that an important part

of the point of law was to supply standards for the decision

of courts. History has vindicated the substantive dimension

of that interpretation. The United States is a more just so-

ciety than it would have been had its constitutional rights

been left to the conscience of majoritarian institutions.” In

any event Marshall decided that the courts in general and

the Supreme Court in the last analysis have the power to de-

cide for the government as a whole what the Constitution

means and to declare acts of the other departments of gov-

ernment invalid if they exceed the powers provided for them

by the Constitution, properly understood. His decision was

accepted, at least in that abstract form, and subsequent con-

stitutional practice has coagulated firmly around it. No in-

terpretation would fit that practice if it denied the powers
