NOTES TO PAGES r115-137

431

strict conventionalism must allow judges the discretion described

IR 4P

2. Austin’s idea that law is rooted in a general habit of obedi-

ence, for example, is easily restated as an interpretation or specifi-

cation of the idea that law is rooted in convention. This fact is

obscured by the familiar misreading, that Austin supposes habits

of obedience always to be the upshot of fear of a sanction. He is

careful not to take any general position about the psychological

springs of obedience; a general habit of obedience is enough to

generate law for Austin, even if this habit is based in fear; but a

habit developed out of love or respect for the sovereign would also

be enough. Austin’s account of convention in terms of habit is not

a fully satisfactory theory of convention, as Hart and others have

established. But 1t does not distort Austin’s theory to treat it as a

theory of convention, however unsatisfactory we find 1it. Hart’s

version of positivism 1s even more plainly conventional, for his rule

of recognition 1s a rule that happens to have been accepted by al-

most everyone, or at least by almost all judges and other lawyers,

no matter what the content of that rule may be. See H. L. A. Hart,

The Concept of Law g7-107 (London, 1961).

3. See David Lewis, Convention: A Philosophical Study (Cam-

bridge, Mass., 1969).

4. Soft conventionalism is suggested in the account of positiv-

ism given by Jules Coleman in “Negative and Positive Positiv-

ism,” 11 Journal of Legal Studies 139 (1982), reprinted in Ronald

Dworkin and Contemporary Jurisprudence 28 (Marshall Cohen ed., New

York and London, 1984). See also E. Philip Soper, “Legal Theory

and the Obligation of a Judge,” in the same book, particularly at

17-20 (law can depend on controversial judgments of morality if a

sovereign body declares that whatever is just is law), and David

Lyons, “Principles, Positivism and Legal Theory,” 87 Yale Law

Journal 415, 422 ff. (law can depend on the correct though contro-

versial interpretation of a fundamental document drafted in

moral terms). As Coleman points out, Hart seems to reject the in-

terpretation of his views that Soper and Lyons assume.

5. Sce G. Erdlich, A Commentary on the Interpretation of Statutes

sec. 4 (1888) (citing both American and English cases); Suther-

land’s Statutory Construction sec. 46.07 (4th ed., Wilmette, Ill., 1985)

(plain meaning governs unless absurdity would result); P. Langan,

Maxwell on Interpretation of Statutes (12th ed., London, 1969)
