THE CONSTITUTION

382

collective decisions of policy, whichever conception of equal-

ity the state has chosen?

These are separate questions, and the distinction is 1m-

portant. Hercules will answer the first in the negative. The

Constitution cannot sensibly be read as demanding that the

nation and every state follow a utilitarian or libertarian or

resource-egalitarian or any other particular conception of

equality in fixing on strategies for pursuing the general wel-

fare. The Constitution does 1nsist that each jurisdiction ac-

cept the abstract egalitarian principle that people must be

treated as equals, and therefore that each respect some plau-

sible conception of equality in each of its decisions about

property and other matters of policy. (That relatively per-

missive constitutional standard is at least part of what con-

somewhat

1415

stitutional

lawyers

o1 I

misleadingly,

“rationality” requirement.) The second question, about in-

dividual constitutional rights over any collective justifica-

tion, is a different matter. For Hercules will certainly draw

this conclusion from constitutional history and practice:

though the Constitution leaves each state free in matters of

policy, subject only to the constraint just described, it insists

that each state recognize certain rights qualifying any col-

lective justification it uses, any view it takes of the general in-

terest. The crucial interpretive question is then what rights

these are.

Hercules is now concerned with one set of putative consti-

tutional rights. It seems plain that the Constitution man-

dates some individual right not to be the victim of official,

state-imposed racial discrimination. But what is the charac-

ter and what are the dimensions of that right? He constructs

three accounts of a right against racial discrimination. He

will test each as a competent interpretation of constitutional

practice under the Fourteenth Amendment.

1. Suspect classifications. The first account supposes that the

right against discrimination 1s only a consequence of the

more general right people have to be treated as equals ac-

cording to whichever conception of equality their state pur-
