21y 0

INTEGRITY IN [LAW

—_

some statutce or line of cases. 'I'hen he must choose between

eligible interpretations by asking which shows the commu-

nity’s structure of institutions and decisions—its public

standards as a whole- 1n a better light from the standpoint

of political morality. His own moral and political convic-

tions are now directly engaged. But the political judgment

he must make 1s itself complex and will sometimes set one

department of his political morality against another: his de-

cision will reflect not only his opinions about justice and

fairness but his higher-order convictions about how these

1deals should be compromised when they compete. Ques-

tions of fit arise at this stage of interpretation as well, be-

cause even when an interpretation survives the threshold

requirement, any infelicities of fit will count against it, in the

ways we noticed, in the general balance of political virtues.

Different judges will disagree about each of these issues and

will accordingly take different views of what the law of their

community, properly understood, really is.

Any judge will develop, in the course of his training and

experience, a fairly individualized working conception of

law on which he will rely, perhaps unthinkingly, in making

these various judgments and decistons, and the judgments

will then be, for him, a matter of feel or instinct rather than

analysis. Even so, we as critics can impose structure on his

working theory by teasing out its rules of thumb about fit—

about the relative importance of consistency with past rheto-

ric and popular opinion, for example—and its more sub-

stantive opinions or leanings about justice and fairness. Most

judges will be like other people in their community, and

fairness and justice will therefore not often compete for

them. But judges whose political opinions are more eccentric

or radical will find that the two 1deals conflict in particular

cases, and they will have to decide which resolution of that

conflict would show the community’s record in the best

light. Their working conceptions will accordingly include

higher-order principles that have proved necessary to that

further decision. A particular judge may think or assume, for
