X e

INTEGRITY IN LAW

thumb he has followed in the past as provisional and stand

ready to abandon these in favor of more sophisticated and

searching analysis when the occasion demands. These will be

moments of special difficulty for any judge, calling for fresh

political judgments that may be hard to make. It would be

absurd to suppose that he will always have at hand the nec-

essary background convictions of political morality for such

occasions. Very hard cases will force him to develop his con-

ception of law and his political morality together in a mutu-

ally supporting way. But it 1s nevertheless possible for any

Judge to confront fresh and challenging issues as a matter of

principle, and this is what law as integrity demands of him.

He must accept that in finally choosing one interpretation

over another of a much contested line of precedents, perhaps

after demanding thought and shifting conviction, he is de-

veloping his working conception of law in one rather than

another direction. This must seem to him the right direction

as a matter of political principle, not just appealing for the

moment because it recommends an attractive decision in the

immediate case. There is, in this counsel, much room for de-

ception, including self-deception. But on most occasions it

will be possible for judges to recognize when they have sub-

mitted an issue to the discipline it describes. And also to rec-

ognize when some other judge has not.

SOME FAMILIAR OBJECTIONS

Hercules Is Playing Politics

Hercules has completed his labors in Mc¢Loughlin. He declares

that the best interpretation of the emotional damage cases,

all things considered, is (5): the law allows compensation for

all emotional injury directly caused by careless driving and

foreseeable by a reasonably thoughtful motorist. But he con-

cedes that in reaching that conclusion he has relied on his

own opinion that this principle is better—fairer and more

just—than any other that 1s eligible on what he takes to be
