STATUTES

323

he. (She did not suggest an amendment, let us assume, be-

cause she did not know how many others shared her hopes,

or because she feared other amendments if she did, or be-

cause she did not think the issue worth the delay.) Hermes

might be tempted for a moment by the i1dea that in these

circumstances Smith’s intention should be taken to be her

hopes rather than her expectations. After all, he might think,

lcgislation should express the will of a majority of the legisla-

tors, and will 1s more a matter of hope than of prediction.

But he knows that congressmen’s hopes very often do them

no credit. Smith may have voted for the Endangered Species

Act because she feared the opposition of the conservationist

lobby at the next election, or because she knew her constitu-

cnts wanted her to vote that way. If these were her reasons,

she may have hoped the act would be construed as narrowly

as possible because she thought it foolish or because the act

was bad news for corporations controlled by her friends. So

[ lermes might be inclined to the apparently opposite view,

that Smith’s intentions should be taken to be a matter of

how she expects the statute to be understood. After all, if she

votes for a statute that she expects to have particular conse-

(quences, then she has consented to these consequences, even

though she might regret them, as part of an overall inclusive

compromise she prefers to what she believes would be the al-

ternative. So a theory of legislative intention constructed on

predictions seems to guarantee that a majority of legislators

will have consented to the statute as enforced. But Hermes’

cnthusiasm for the expectation solution will be short lived,

hecause just as a legislator’s hopes may reflect selfish ambi-

tions that have no place in any acceptable theory of legisla-

tive interpretation, so his expectations may be based on

predictions that have no place in any such theory either.

Smith may expect the Endangered Species Act to be con-

strued narrowly only because she thinks, rightly or wrongly,

that the first case applying the act will come before anticon-

scrvationist judges. In any case the expectation solution
