INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

o

taining a particular social tradition, just as we aim in con-

versation to grasp a friend’s intentions in speaking as he

does.’ I shall defend a different solution: that creative inter-

pretation is not conversational but constructive. Interpretation

of works of art and social practices, I shall argue, is indeed

essentially concerned with purpose not cause. But the pur-

poses In play are not (fundamentally) those of some author

but of the interpreter. Roughly, constructive interpretation

1s a matter of imposing purpose on an object or practice in

order to make of it the best possible example of the form or

genre to which it i1s taken to belong. It does not follow, even

from that rough account, that an interpreter can make of a

practice or work of art anything he would have wanted 1t to

be, that a citizen of courtesy who is enthralled by equality,

for example, can in good faith claim that courtesy actually

requires the sharing of wealth. For the history or shape of a

practice or object constrains the available interpretations of

1t, though the character of that constraint needs careful ac-

counting, as we shall see. Creative interpretation, on the

constructive view, is a matter of interaction between purpose

and object.

A participant interpreting a social practice, according to

that view, proposes value for the practice by describing some

scheme of interests or goals or principles the practice can be

taken to serve or express or exemplify. Very often, perhaps

even typically, the raw behavioral data of the practice—

what people do in what circumstances—will underdetermine

the ascription of value: those data will be consistent, that is,

with different and competing ascriptions. One person might

see In the practices of courtesy a device for ensuring that re-

spect 1s paid to those who merit it because of social rank or

other status. Another might see, equally vividly, a device for

making social exchange more conventional and therefore /ess

indicative of differential judgments of respect. If the raw

data do not discriminate between these competing interpre-

tations, each interpreter’s choice must reflect his view of

which interpretation proposes the most value for the prac-
