LAW BEYOND LAW

YeR

adjudication: law is a matter of rights tenable in court. This

makes the content of law sensitive to different kinds of insti-

tutional constraints, special to judges, that are not necessar-

1ly constraints for other officials or institutions. When judges

interpret legal practice as a whole, they find reasons of differ-

ent sorts, specifically applying to judges, why they should rot

declare as present law the principles and standards that

would provide the most coherent account of the substantive

decisions of that practice.

Strict doctrines of precedent, which require some judges to

follow past decisions of other judges even when they think

these are mistaken, are a familiar instance. Recall an exam-

ple I used earlier: the House of Lords continues to exempt

barristers from liability for negligence in certain circum-

stances. Integrity condemns this special treatment, and Par-

liament, out of integrity, should repeal it.

But a lower

English court cannot because precedent forbids. Strict prece-

dent varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and the highest

courts are ordinarily exempt. But legislative supremacy is

another institutional constraint, and this normally embraces

all courts. If a judge is satisfied that a statute admits of only

one Interpretation, then, barring constitutional impediment,

he must enforce this as law even if he thinks the statute in-

consistent in principle with the law more broadly seen.® He

may think that the legislature ought to repair the inconsis-

tency by further legislation, not only or necessarily out of a

sense of justice, but because the legislature is also a guardian

of integrity. But that will not affect what the law is for him.

If Hercules had decided to ignore legislative supremacy

and strict precedent whenever ignoring these doctrines

would allow him to improve the law’s integrity, judged as a

matter of substance alone, then he would have violated in-

tegrity overall. For any successful general interpretation of

our legal practice must recognize these institutional con-

straints. Other judicial constraints are less doctrinal and

more a matter of different aspects of a judge’s sense of due

process in court. Lord Hercules might think that exempting
