186

INTEGRITY

these communities. The American Constitution provides a

federal system: 1t recognizes states as distinct political com-

munities and assigns them sovereignty over many issues of

principle. So there is no violation of political integrity in the

fact that the tort laws of some states differ from those of

others even over matters of principle. Each sovereign speaks

with a single voice, though not in harmony with other sover-

eigns. But 1n a federal system integrity makes demands on

the higher-order decisions, taken at the constitutional level,

about the division of power between the national and the

more local levels. Some scholars and politicians opposed to

the Supreme Court’s 1973 abortion decision now argue that

the Constitution should be understood to leave decisions

about abortion to the various states, so that some could per-

mit abortion on demand, others prohibit it in all circum-

12

That

stances, and others adopt intermediate regimes.

suggestion 1s not itself a checkerboard solution: each state

would retain a constitutional duty that its own abortion stat-

ute be coherent 1n principle, and the suggestion offers itself

as recognizing independent sovereigns rather than speaking

for all together. But a question of integrity remains: whether

leaving the abortion issue to individual states to decide dif-

ferently if they wish is coherent in principle with the rest of

the American constitutional scheme, which makes other 1m-

portant rights national in scope and enforcement.

IS INTEGRITY ATTRACTIVE?

I shall offer no further argument for my claim that our polit-

ical life recognizes integrity as a political virtue. The case is

now strong enough for the weight of interest to shift to the

other dimension of interpretation. Do we do well to interpret

our politics that way? Is our political culture more attractive

if seen as accepting that virtue? I have already described, in

Chapter 5, an obvious challenge to integrity. A pragmatist

anxlous to reject integrity would attack the deep, working
