THE CONSTITUTION

370

way requires much more than a simple majority. They can

TRl

overrule the legislature at the next election.

But this statement of passivism muddles different issues,

and we must begin our inspection by distinguishing these. It

seems to speak, at once, to three different questions. The first

is the enactment question. Who should make a constitution?

Should the fundamental law be chosen by unelected judges

appointed for life or in some more democratic fashion by leg-

1slators elected by and responsible to the people as a whole?

The second 1s the jurisdictional question. Which institution,

under the American political scheme, has authority to de-

cide what the present Constitution, properly interpreted, ac-

tually requires? The third 1s the legal question. What does the

present Constitution, properly interpreted, actually require?

Some passivists think they are answering the second ques-

tion; most act as 1f they are answering the first. But the third,

the legal question, is the question they must address if their

theory is to have any practical importance.

Marbury v. Madison settled the second, jurisdictional ques-

tion, at least for the foreseeable future: the Supreme Court,

willy nilly, must itself decide whether the Constitution pro-

hibits states from making abortion criminal in particular

circumstances. Passivism says the Court must exercise that

power by adopting the legislature’s answer as its own, but

that advice is sound only if it follows from the right answer

to the third, legal question. If the right answer to that ques-

tion 1s that the Constitution does forbid states to make abor-

tion criminal, then deferring to a legislature’s contrary

opinion would be amending the Constitution in just the way

passivism thinks appalling. The first question, the question

of enactment, depends on the third, legal question in exactly

the same way. Passivists denounce judicial legislation at the

constitutional level; they say democracy means that the peo-

ple must make fundamental law. But the relevance of that

attractive proposition presupposes, once again, a particular

answer to the third, legal question. If the Constitution, prop-
