INTEGRITY IN LAW

AR

S

consistent with that view of the distinction, because failing

to guard against an accident 1s not necessarily unintentional

in the required sense. So Hercules would be ready to ignore

the traditional boundary between these two departments of

law. If he thought that the “natural use” test was silly, and

the economic cost test much more just, he would argue that

the negligence and nuisance precedents should be seen as

one body of law, and that the economic cost test 1s a superior

interpretation of that unified body. His argument would

probably be made easier by other legal events that already

had occurred. The intellectual climate that produced the

later negligence decisions would have begun to erode the as-

sumption of the earlier nuisance cases, that novel enterprises

that annoy people are necessarily legal wrongs. Perhaps the

legislature would have adopted special statutes rearranging

liability for some new forms of inconvenience, like airport

noise, that the “natural” theory has decided or would decide

in what seems the wrong way, for example. Or perhaps

judges would have decided airport cases by straining the his-

torical meaning of “natural” to reach decisions that seemed

sensible given developing technology. Hercules would cite

these changes as supporting his interpretive argument con-

solidating nuisance and negligence. If he persuades the pro-

fession to his view, nuisance and negligence will no longer be

distinct departments of law but joint tenants of a new prov-

ince which will shortly attract a new name attached to new

law school courses and new treatises. This process is in fact

under way in Anglo-American law, as is, though less se-

curely, a new unification of private law that blurs even the

long-established and once much firmer boundary between

contract and tort.

A PROVISIONAL SUMMARY

In the next three chapters we continue constructing Her-

cules’ working theory of law as integrity by exploring in
