LAW BEYOND LAW

xel¢

if judges were free simply to pursue coherence in the princi-

ples of justice that flow through and unite different depart-

ments of law.

We bow to justice, among the political virtues, by creating

for 1t a special form of integrity. But the honor is not arbi-

trary. The concrete consequences of fairness and procedural

due process are much more contingent than those of justice,

and they are often matters of regret. We hope that our

legislature will recognize what justice requires so that no

practical conflict remains between justice and legislative su-

premacy; we hope that departments of law will be rear-

ranged, in professional and public understanding, to map

true distinctions of principle, so that local priority presents

no impediment to a judge seeking a natural flow of principle

throughout the law.

Our root ambition of treating ourselves as a community of

principle itself recommends a special role for justice. Citizens

of such a community aim to be governed justly and fairly

and with due process, but the three component virtues have

different meaning for them even as ideals. Fairness and due

process are both, though in different ways, tied to specific

institutions within the community. They assign different re-

sponsibility to different officials difterently placed. Justice,

on the contrary, is a matter of what the community personi-

fied, abstracting from institutional responsibilities, ought it-

self to achieve. So there is practical importance in isolating

the question of what integrity both permits and requires seen

from the standpoint of justice alone. For that question marks

an agenda for the community as a whole, as prior to and

shaping further questions about what institutional decisions

would be necessary to achieve this.

We can now dissolve the figure sentimental lawyers cele-

brate, of law within and beyond law. The law we have, the

actual concrete law for us, 1s fixed by inclusive integrity.

This 1s law for the judge, the law he 1s obliged to declare and

enforce. Present law, however, contains another law, whicn

marks out its ambitions for itself; this purer law is defined by
