THE COMMON LAW

S

28

fashion of policy, as commending a general collective goal

that respects equality of concern overall and statistically,

rather than as supposing that each individual statute or reg-

ulation, judged on its own, must award each citizen some-

thing he 1s entitled to have. Every legislative decision about

property must respect certain individual political rights, of

course. (We shall have to consider, in Chapter 10, how far

these political rights are made legal rights under the best in-

terpretation of the United States Constitution.) But a legis-

lature may otherwise pursue the collective general interest

through a variety of different measures and techniques, each

of which achieves a somewhat difterent distribution person

by person. No citizen has a right that one rather another of

these programs be selected just because 1t will benefit him

more. The choice 1s a matter of policy rather than principle.

A legislator has no general need to make policy choices

that produce the allocations of rights and opportunities that

would have been negotiated by the parties specially affected.

A legislator may think, for example, that the best solution to

the problem of speeding trains and burned crops must be

sensitive to national transportation and agricultural policies,

or even to national defense and the balance of payments or

foreign exchange. He may treat his decisions about noise

pollution as an aspect of more general policies about land

use and city planning, or even about support for music or

the arts. His decisions need not be all-or-nothing in the way

practical circumstances force all-or-nothing decisions on citi-

zens acting for themselves. Legislation provides the opportu-

nity to develop a complex scheme of regulation that depends

for its efficacy on overall strategy. It may regulate train

speed differently in different parts of the country, in response

to a thousand complex variations in transportation and

agricultural use and need, for example, or it may divide

cities into zones where noise is treated in different ways, so

long as the divisions are not arbitrary and do not mask ille-

gitimate discriminations that would wviolate individual

rights.
