INTEGRITY IN LAW

218

Into, say, contract cases to see which of these principles, if

either, fits contract decisions better. But in Hercules’ view, if

one principle does not fit accident law at all—if it is contra-

dicted by almost every decision in the area that might have

confirmed 1t—this counts dramatically against it as an eligi-

ble interpretation of that body of law, even if it fits other

areas of the law superbly. He will not treat this doctrine of

local priority as absolute, however; he will be ready to over-

ride 1t, as we shall soon see, 1n some circumstances.

The compartmentalization of law into separate depart-

ments 1s a prominent feature of legal practice. Law schools

divide courses and their libraries divide treatises to distin-

guish emotional from economic or physical injury, inten-

tional from unintentional torts, tort from crime, contract

from other parts of common law, private from public law,

and constitutional law from other parts of public law. Legal

and judicial arguments respect these traditional divisions.

Judicial opinions normally begin by assigning the case in

hand to some department of law, and the precedents and

statutes considered are usually drawn exclusively from that

department. Often the initial classification is both contro-

versial and crucial.

Compartmentalization suits both conventionalism and

pragmatism, though for different reasons. Departments of

law are based on tradition, which seems to support conven-

tionalism, and they provide a strategy a pragmatist can ma-

nipulate in telling his noble lies: he can explain that his new

doctrine need not be consistent in principle with past deci-

sions because the latter, properly understood, belong to a dif-

ferent department. Law as integrity has a more complex

attitude toward departments of law. Its general spirit con-

demns them, because the adjudicative principle of integrity

asks judges to make the law coherent as a whole, so far as

they can, and this might be better done by ignoring aca-

demic boundaries and reforming some departments of law

radically to make them more consistent in principle with

others.'* But law as integrity is interpretive, and compart-
