JURISPRUDENCE REVISITED

93

matter of respect, we might understand law better if we

could find a similar abstract description of the point of law

most legal theorists accept so that their arguments take place

on the plateau it furnishes.

Neither jurisprudence nor my own arguments later in this

book depend on finding an abstract description of that sort.

Political philosophy thrives, as I said, in spite of our difficul-

ties in finding any adequate statement of the concept of jus-

tice. Nevertheless 1 suggest the following as an abstract

account that organizes further argument about law’s charac-

ter. Governments have goals: they aim to make the nations

they govern prosperous or powerful or religious or eminent;

they also aim to remain in power. They use the collective

force they monopolize to these and other ends. Our discus-

sions about law by and large assume, I suggest, that the most

abstract and fundamental point of legal practice is to guide

and constrain the power of government in the following way.

Law 1nsists that force not be used or withheld, no mat-

ter how useful that would be to ends in view, no matter

how beneficial or noble these ends, except as licensed or

required by individual rights and responsibilities flowing

from past political decisions about when collective force is

BE 81t R

The law of a community on this account 1s the scheme of

rights and responsibilities that meet that complex standard:

they license coercion because they flow from past decisions of

the right sort. They are therefore “legal” rights and responsi-

bilities. This characterization of the concept of law sets out,

in suitably airy form, what is sometimes called the “rule” of

law. It 1s compatible with a great many competing claims

about exactly which rights and responsibilities, beyond the

paradigms of the day, do follow from past political decisions

of the right sort and for that reason do license or require

coercive enforcement. It therefore seems sufficiently abstract

and uncontroversial to provide, at least provisionally, the

structure we seek. No doubt there are exceptions to this
