WHAT IS LAW?

o

cident is reasonably foreseeable, but he said that injury to a

mother who saw the results of the accident later 1s not. So he

thought he could distinguish the putative precedents in that

way and decided against Mrs. McLoughlin’s claim.

She appealed his decision to the next highest court in the

British hierarchy, the Court of Appeal.”’> That court af-

firmed the trial judge’s decision—it refused her appeal and

let his decision stand—but not on the argument he had used.

The Court of Appeal said it was reasonably foreseeable that

a mother would rush to the hospital to see her injured family

and that she would suffer emotional shock from seeing them

in the condition Mrs. McLoughlin found. That court distin-

guished the precedents not on that ground but for the very

different reason that what it called “policy” justified a dis-

tinction. The precedents had established liability for emo-

tional i1njury in certain restricted circumstances, but the

Court of Appeal said that recognizing a larger area of liabil-

ity, embracing injuries to relatives not at the scene, would

have a variety of adverse consequences for the community as

a whole. It would encourage many more lawsuits for emo-

tional injuries, and this would exacerbate the problem of

congestion in the courts. It would open new opportunities for

fraudulent claims by people who had not really suffered seri-

ous emotional damage but could find doctors to testify that

they had. It would increase the cost of liability insurance,

making it more expensive to drive and perhaps preventing

some poor people from driving at all. The claims of those

who had suffered genuine emotional injury away from the

scene would be harder to prove, and the uncertainties of liti-

gation might complicate their condition and delay their re-

covery.

Mrs. McLoughlin appealed the decision once more, to the

House of Lords, which reversed the Court of Appeal and

ordered a new trial.** The decision was unanimous, but their

lordships disagreed about what they called the true state of

the law. Several of them said that policy reasons, of the sort

described by the Court of Appeal, might in some circum-
