218

INTEGRITY

scheme of accident law, which allows people compensation

for defective products only when the manufacturer is negli-

gent, 1s unjust, and therefore it proposes to enact a scheme of

strict liability for defective automobiles. Integrity would re-

quire it to enact strict liability for all other products as well.

But preparing an adequate general statute for all products

might take a great deal of legislative time that is needed for

other matters. Or the manufacturers of some products might

form a powerful lobby, making it politically impossible to

pass a general statute yet. In that case the legislature, faced

with a hard choice, might well be justified in enacting the

automobile defect compensation statute alone, leaving other

products to another day or other days. Integrity condemns

the result, but justice recommends it over no change at all,

and on balance half the loaf might be better than none. The

legislature would abandon its general commitment to integ-

rity, and so forfeit the argument for legitimacy we canvassed,

if it made that choice in every case or even characteristically.

But that does not mean 1t should never choose justice over

10Ty 9 1R'A

Nor is the adjudicative principle of integrity absolutely

sovereign over what judges must do at the end of the day.

That principle 1s decisive over what a judge recognizes as

law. It is sovereign, that is, over the grounds of law, because

1t admits no other view of what “flows from” past political

decisions. But we saw in Chapter g that any theory about the

grounds of law abstracts from detailed i1ssues about the force

of law. A judge who accepts integrity will think that the law

it defines sets out genuine rights litigants have to a decision

before him. They are entitled, in principle, to have their acts

and affairs judged in accordance with the best view of what

the legal standards of the community required or permitted

at the time they acted, and integrity demands that these

standards be seen as coherent, as the state speaking with a

single voice. But though this requirement honors the politi-

cal virtue of procedural due process, which would at least

prima facie be violated if people were judged against stan-
