INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

R

¥

analysis is important for us, not because anything now turns

on whether it 1s right 1n detail, but because 1t suggests a con-

ception of intention quite different from the crude con-

sclous-mental-state conception. An insight belongs to an

artist’s 1intention, on this view, when 1t fits and i1lluminates

his artistic purposes in a way he would recognize and en-

dorse even though he has not already done so. (So the imag-

ined-conversation test can be applied to authors long dead,

as 1t must be if it is to be of general critical use.) This brings

the interpreter’s sense of artistic value into his reconstruc-

tion of the artist’s intention 1in at least an evidential way,

for the interpreter’s judgment of what an author would have

accepted will be guided by his sense of what the author

should have accepted, that is, his sense of which read-

ings would make the work better and which would make it

WOrse.

Cavell’s imagined conversation with Fellini begins in Ca-

vell’s finding the film better if 1t 1s read as including a refer-

ence to Philomel and in his supposing that Fellini could be

brought to share that view, to want the film read that way, to

see his ambitions better realized by embracing that inten-

tion. Most of the reasons Cavell is likely to have for suppos-

ing this are his reasons for preferring his own reading. I do

not mean that this use of artistic intention is a kind of fraud,

a disguise for the interpreter’s own views. For the imagined

conversation has an important negative role: in some circum-

stances an interpreter would have good reason to suppose

that the artist would reject a reading that appeals to the in-

terpreter. Nor do I mean that we must accept the general

claim that interpretation is a matter of retrieving or recon-

structing a particular author’s intention once we abandon

the crude conscious-mental-state view of intention. Many

critics now reject the general claim even in a more subtle

form, and in the next section we shall have to consider how

this continuing quarrel should be understood. My present

point 1s only that the author’s-intention claim, when it be-

comes a method or a style of interpretation, itself engages an
