426

NOTES TO PAGES 79-84

deceptive. We shall see in Chapter 4 that the idea of a convention

1s itself somewhat mysterious; in the present use it 1s lame as well.

Can professional colleagues be thought to share a convention

about the best way to read Paradise Lost, for example, when they

disagree about what is the best way? If we concede that in that

case they do not share a convention—that colleagues can belong

to very different interpretive “communities’” even though their of-

fices are facing across a hall—then we still leave unexplained how

someone can think his interpretation better than that of a col-

league who belongs to a different community. For in that case he

believes, not just that the conventions of the two communities are

different, but that those of his community are better, the right

ones to use. So the idea of conventions and professional commu-

nities is no help, and we must confront the bold position that there

1s “no right answer” to the question of how Paradise Lost should be

read, that there are only different interpretations, not better and

woOrse€ ones.

24. See, e.g., Morality and Objectivity (Ted Henderich ed., Lon-

don, 1985); Bernard Williams, Ethics and the Limats of Philosophy

(Cambridge, Mass., 1985); and Thomas Nagel, The View from No-

where (forthcoming).

25. See A Matter of Principle chaps. 5, 6 and 7.

26. If I held the contrary view and said I really did think the su-

periority of rum raisin was an objective fact of the matter and not

just my subjective taste, that I was describing a property of the ice

cream itself, not just of my preferences, you would disagree, but

our disagreement would not be some second-order disagreement

about the possibility of sound aesthetic claims. It would be a con-

test between two aesthetic styles or attitudes: my silly view, that

everyone has a reason to value the experience of rum raisin,

whether or not he enjoys that experience, and your more attrac-

tive (internal) skepticism that ice crecam can have acsthetic value

of that sort. You would think, not that 1 have a defective on-

tology because I think ice cream contains value the way it does

cream and sugar, but that I have a defective sensibility, that I

have no understanding of the character of a genuine aesthetic

experience.

27. When someone has a belief or conviction it makes sense to

ask for its pedigree, that is, to ask for an explanation of how he

came to hold it. Some explanations assume, in some part of the
