INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

5

tions of a particular object of interpretation. One can be

skeptical in this way not just about a particular play but

more generally about an enterprise. Suppose a citizen sur-

veys the practices of courtesy his neighbors count as valuable

and decides that this shared assumption is a shared mistake.

He has convictions about what kinds of social institutions

can be useful or valuable to a community; he concludes that

the practices of courtesy, root and branch, serve no good

purpose or, even worse, that they serve a malign one. So he

condemns as perverse all the different interpretations of

courtesy his colleagues construct and defend against one an-

other: his internal skepticism is, with respect to courtesy,

global. Once again he relies on, instead of scorning, the idea

that some social practices are better than others; he relies on

a general attitude about social value to condemn all the in-

terpretations of courtesy offered by his fellows. He assumes

his general attitudes are sound and their contrary ones

wrong.

Global internal skepticism of this sort, if it were plausible

for law and not just courtesy, would threaten our own enter-

prise. For we hope to develop a positive theoretical account

of the grounds of law, a program of adjudication we can rec-

ommend to judges and use to criticize what they do. So we

cannot ignore the possibility that some globally skeptical

view about the value of legal institutions is, in the end, the

most powerful and persuasive view; we cannot say that this

possibility is irrelevant to legal theory. We shall return to

this threat in Chapter 7. Our present interest 1s in the other,

external form of skepticism.

External skepticism i1s a metaphysical theory, not an in-

terpretive or moral position. The external skeptic does not

challenge any particular moral or interpretive claim. He

does not say that it is in any way a mistake to think that

Hamlet 1s about delay or that courtesy is a matter of respect

or that slavery is wrong. His theory 1s rather a second-level

theory about the philosophical standing or classification of

these claims. He insists they are not descriptions that can be
