STATUTES

—_—

329

hers of such a community expect their legislators to act on

principle and with integrity, and that goal i1s promoted if

lepislation 1s enforced in the light, not of personal ambitions

prominent among legislators, but of convictions dominant in

the legislature as a whole.

When Hermes for these various reasons takes up the con-

victions reading, he has moved very far from the original

picture of legislation as communication. Smith’s votes

should be evidence of her convictions, but they are not state-

ments of them in the way a speaker’s sentences are state-

ments of the thought he uses them to express.

Conflicting and Dominant Convictions

[lermes’ new idea, however, 1s the seat of new problems.

Smith’s political convictions, however rough and incom-

plete, are not just a shopping list of random beliefs and atti-

tudes. She has a variety of opinions about what is fair or

unfair, just or unjust, wise or silly, in or against the national

or collective interest, but she sees these as having a hierarchi-

cal structure: she treats some as more basic and fundamental

than others, and some as depending on others, or supporting

them, or both. Unless she 1s a Herculean moralist, these vari-

ous opinions will not be perfectly coherent. Or—more to the

present point—they will not seem perfectly coherent to any-

one who undertakes, as Hermes must, to lay over them the

single, coherent justifying structure integrity demands. Her

opinions about conservation policy might seem to him to be

in deep conflict with her views about how far it 1s just and

reasonable for government to impose national aesthetic

standards, as expressed in her statements or votes on housing

or zoning law. Or with her convictions, reflected in state-

ments or votes about local government or tax policy, about

how far the economic interests of a discrete locality should

be sacrificed to the tastes of a national majority, most of

whom will not suffer comparable financial loss. Or with her

views about political fairness, about how far government is
