INTEGRITY

IN LAW

RN

—_——

cven though these rules will create rights and duties for the

future that will then be enforced by coercive threat. A legis-

lature may justify its decision to create new rights for the fu-

ture by showing how these will contribute, as a matter of

sound policy, to the overall good of the community as a

whole. There are limits to this kind of justification, as we no-

ticed in Chapter 6. The general good may not be used to

justify the death penalty for careless driving. But the legisla-

ture need not show that citizens already have a moral right

to compensation for injury under particular circumstances

in order to justify a statute awarding damages in those cir-

cumstances.

Law as integrity assumes, however, that judges are in a

very different position from legislators. It does not fit the

character of a community of principle that a judge should

have authority to hold people liable in damages for acting in

a way he concedes they had no legal duty not to act. So

when judges construct rules of liability not recognized be-

fore, they are not free in the way I just said legislators are.

Judges must make their common-law decisions on grounds

of principle, not policy: they must deploy arguments why the

parties actually had the “novel” legal rights and duties they

enforce at the time the parties acted or at some other perti-

nent time in the past.” A legal pragmatist would reject that

claim. But Hercules rejects pragmatism. He follows law as

integrity and therefore wants an interpretation of what

judges did in the earlier emotional damage cases that shows

them acting in the way he approves, not in the way he thinks

judges must decline to act. It does not follow that he must

dismiss interpretation (3) read in the first way I described, as

supposing that past judges acted to protect a general legal

right to compensation when this would make the commu-

nity richer. For if people actually have such a right, others

have a corresponding duty, and judges do not act unjustly in

ordering the police to enforce it. The argument disqualifies

interpretation (3) only when this is read to deny any such

general duty and to rest on grounds of policy alone.
