e

WHAT IS LAW?

general language, so Judge Gray insisted that the real stat-

ute, constructed in the proper way, contained no exceptions

for murderers. He voted for Elmer.

Law students reading his opinion now are mostly con-

temptuous of that way of constructing a statute from a text;

they say it i1s an example of mechanical jurisprudence. But

there was nothing mechanical about Judge Gray’s argu-

ment. There is much to be said (some of which he did say)

for his method of constructing a statute, at least in the case

of a statute of wills. Testators should know how their wills

will be treated when they are no longer alive to offer fresh

instructions. Perhaps Elmer’s grandfather would have pre-

ferred his property to go to Goneril and Regan in the event

that Elmer poisoned him. But perhaps not: he might have

thought that Elmer, even with murder on his hands, was still

a better object for his generosity than his daughters. It might

be wiser in the long run for judges to assure testators that the

statute of wills will be interpreted in the so-called literal way,

so that testators can make any arrangements they wish, con-

fident that their dispositions, however amusing, will be re-

spected. Besides, if Elmer loses his inheritance just because

he is a murderer, then that 1s a further punishment, beyond

his term 1n jail, for his crime. It i1s an important principle of

justice that the punishment for a particular crime must be

set out in advance by the legislature and not increased by

judges after the crime has been committed. All this (and

more) can be said on behalf of Judge Gray’s theory about

how to read a statute of wills.

Judge Earl, however, writing for the majority, used a very

different theory of legislation, which gives the legislators’ in-

tentions an important influence over the real statute. “It is a

familiar canon of construction,” Earl wrote, “that a thing

which i1s within the intention of the makers of a statute is as

much within the statute as if it were within the letter; and a

thing which is within the letter of the statute is not within

330

the statute, unless it be within the intention of the makers.

(Notice how he relies on the distinction between the text,
