THE COMMON LAW

300

interpretation of our political and moral practices, but it has

special importance in this chapter. It recommends the sec-

ond strategy for explaining why we have a duty to treat

others with equal concern in nuisance and negligence situa-

tions, the strategy which accepts that we have no general

duty to treat others that way 1n all situations and tries to ex-

plain why we do have that duty when abstract legal rights

conflict. The division between public and private responsi-

bility in property draws a crucial distinction between the re-

sponsibilities individual citizens have on two kinds of

occaslons: first, when they decide how to use what the public

scheme of property has clearly assigned them and, second,

when they must decide what it has assigned them, either be-

cause 1ts explicit rules are unclear or incomplete or because

the abstract rights it deploys conflict in some way. On the

first kind of occasion a citizen can suppose himself entitled to

act for himself or others he chooses, as a member of a com-

munity of principle whose scheme secures, according to the

latest public settlement, what it deems are the conditions for

a permissive, self-interested attitude. But on the second kind

of occasion he cannot allow himself that freedom, because

the question 1s then what that scheme, properly understood,

should be taken to be, which means asking how those condi-

tions should be more particularly defined. Each citizen must

answer that interpretive question for himself, by refining

and applying the compatible conception of equality he be-

lieves supplies the best interpretation of the main structure

of the settled scheme.

On these latter occasions, that 1is, his attitudes must be

egalitarian rather than permissive. That is the foundation

we need for an improved egalitarian justification of the

market-simulating approach to certain hard cases at law. It

allows us to state that justification in this preliminary and

rough way. Market-simulating rules provide at least part of

the best practical elaboration of the best compatible concep-

tion of equality. So these rules should guide citizens when

they are properly engaged, not just in employing, but in
