82

INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

everywhere, not just in communities whose traditions con-

demned it. So if someone says I am mistaken in this judg-

ment, and our disagreement 1s genuine, he must mean to

express the opinion that slavery is nof wrong everywhere, or

perhaps that it is not wrong at all. That is a version of inter-

nal skepticism: i1t could be defended only by moral argu-

ments of some kind, for example by appealing to a form of

moral relativism that holds that true morality consists only

in following the traditions of one’s community.

So there is no important difference in philosophical cate-

gory or standing between the statement that slavery is wrong

and the statement that there 1s a right answer to the question

of slavery, namely that 1t 1s wrong. I cannot intelligibly hold

the first opinion as a moral opinion without also holding the

second. Since external skepticism oflers no reason to retract

or modify the former, it offers no reason to retract or modify

the latter either. They are both statements within rather

than about the enterprise of morality. Unlike the global

form of internal skepticism, therefore, genuine external

skepticism cannot threaten any interpretive project. Even if

we think we understand and accept that form of skepticism,

it can provide no reason why we should not also think that

slavery 1s wrong, that Hamlet 1s about ambiguity and that

courtesy i1gnores rank, or, what comes to the same thing, that

each of these positions is better (or i1s “really” better) than its

rivals. If we were external skeptics, then in a calm philosoph-

ical moment, away from the moral or interpretive wars, we

would take an externally skeptical view of the philosophical

standing of al/ these opinions. We would classify them all as

projections rather than discoveries. But we would not dis-

criminate among them by supposing that only the latter

were mistakes. I hasten to add that recognizing the crucial

point I have been stressing—that the “objective” beliefs

most of us have are moral, not metaphysical, beliefs, that

they only repeat and qualify other moral beliefs—in no way

weakens these beliefs or makes them claim something less or

even different from what they might be thought to claim.
