168

PRAGMATISM AND PERSONIFICATION

We personify groups in ordinary conversation. We speak

casually of the interests or goals of the working class, for ex-

ample. But these expressions are often only convenient fig-

ures of speech, shorthand ways of talking about the average

or representative members of a community. My account of

political integrity takes the personification much more

seriously, as if a political community really were some spe-

cial kind of entity distinct from the actual people who are its

citizens. Worse, it attributes moral agency and responsibility

to this distinct entity. For when I speak of the community

being faithful to its own principles I do not mean its conven-

tional or popular morality, the beliefs and convictions of

most citizens. I mean that the community has its own prin-

ciples 1t can itself honor or dishonor, that 1t can act in good

or bad faith, with integrity or hypocritically, just as people

can. Can I really mean to personify the community in this

vivid way? Do I really mean to attribute to the state or com-

munity principles that are not simply those of most of its

members?

Two Arguments about Group Responsibility

Yes. But I must be clearer what kind of personification this

1s. I do not intend now to resurrect the metaphysical theory I

said in Chapter 2 that we do not need. I do not suppose that

the ultimate mental component of the universe is some

spooky, all-embracing mind that is more real than flesh-

and-blood people, nor that we should treat the state or com-

munity as a real person with a distinct interest or point of

view or even welfare of i1its own, nor that we can ask the

range of questions about a state’s principles—for example

whether it accepted them freely or was misled or misun-

derstands them—that we can ask about aspects of a real per-

son’s moral life. I mean only to endorse a complex, two-stage

way of reasoning about the responsibilities of officials and

citizens that finds a natural expression in the personifica-
