B

CONVENTIONALISM

ter 1.” But there is this important difference. The semantic

theories argue that the description just given 1s realized in

and enforced by the very vocabulary of law, so that it would

be a kind of self-contradiction for someone to claim that the

law provides rights beyond those established through mech-

anisms sanctioned by convention. The conventionalist con-

ception of law, on the contrary, 1s interpretive: it makes no

linguistic or logical claim of that kind. Instead it takes up the

double-aspect, Januslike posture of any interpretation. It

argues that this way of describing legal practice shows that

practice In its best light and therefore offers the most illu-

minating account of what lawyers and judges do. It insists

that this i1s therefore the best guide to what they should do,

that it points out the right direction for continuing and de-

veloping that practice. Conventionalism does not deny that

many lawyers hold rival views about the best interpretation

of the practice they share. It claims that these lawyers are

wrong, lacking in insight and perception, that they miscon-

ceive their own behavior. But it does not deny that they

mean what they say, does not suggest that they are talking

NnoOnsense.

Conventionalism makes two postinterpretive, directive

claims. The first i1s positive: that judges must respect the es-

tablished legal conventions of their community except in

rare circumstances. It insists, in other words, that they must

treat as law what convention stipulates is law. Since conven-

tion in Britain establishes that acts of Parliament are law, a

British judge must enforce even acts of Parliament he con-

siders unfair or unwise. This positive part of conventionalism

most plainly corresponds to the popular slogan that judges

should follow the law and not make new law 1n its place.

The second claim, which is at least equally important, is

negative. It declares that there 1s no law—no right flowing

from past political decisions—apart from the law drawn

from those decisions by techniques that are themselves mat-

ters of convention, and therefore that on some issues there 1s

no law either way. There 1s no law on emotional damages,
