Y]

INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

“Since people do not agree about the injustice of social

rank,” he might say, “and since people are likely to think

rank unjust only 1if they are born into cultures of a certain

sort, it 1s unfair to claim that everyone must despise and give

up rank. The most we should say 1s that people who think it

unjust should despise and reject it, or that people who live in

communities of that opinion should do so0.” Or: “The fact

that others, in different cultures, reject our moral views

shows that we have these views only because of the moral

upbringing we happen to have had, and realizing that casts

doubt on those views.

YA

These are internally skeptical arguments because they as-

sume some general and abstract moral position—that moral

claims have genuine moral force only when they are drawn

from the mores of a particular community, for example, or

that moral beliefs are false unless they are likely to be ac-

cepted In any culture—as the basis for rejecting the more

concrete moral claims in hand. Substantive moral argu-

ments like these have actually been made, of course, and

their latent appeal might explain why skepticism, disguised

as external skepticism, has been so popular in interpretation

and 1n law. They might not strike you as good arguments,

once that disguise 1s abandoned, but that is, I suggest, be-

cause you find global internal skepticism about morality im-

plausible.

The metamorphosis I describe is not costless, because the

skeptic’s arguments, recast as arguments of internal skepti-

cism, can no longer be peremptory or a priori. He needs ar-

guments that stand up as moral (or aesthetic or interpretive)

arguments; or 1f not arguments, at least convictions of the

appropriate kind. His skepticism can no longer be disen-

gaged or neutral about ordinary moral (or aesthetic or inter-

pretive) opinions. He cannot reserve his skepticism for some

quiet philosophical moment, and press his own opinions

about the morality of slavery, for example, or the connection

between courtesy and respect, when he is oftf duty and only

acting 1n the ordinary way. He has given up his distinction
