INTEGRITY

183

missive law. They think that fewer murders are better than

more no matter how incoherent the compromise that pro-

duces fewer. If they rank the checkerboard solution last in

other circumstances, in the case of strict liability for manu-

facturers, for example, they nevertheless believe that internal

compromise 1s wrong, though for reasons that yield when the

substantive 1ssue is very grave. So they share the instinct that

needs explaining. This instinct 1s likely to be at work, more-

over, in other, more complicated rankings they might make.

Suppose you think abortion is murder and that it makes no

difterence whether the pregnancy is the result of rape.

Would you not think a statute prohibiting abortion except

in the case of rape distinctly better than a statute prohibiting

abortion except to women born in one specified decade each

century? At least if you had no reason to think either would

in fact allow more abortions? You see the first of these stat-

utes as a solution that gives eftfect to two recognizable prin-

ciples of justice, ordered in a certain way, even though you

reject one of the principles.® You cannot treat the second

that way; 1t simply affirms for some people a principle it

denies to others. So for many of us, our preferences in partic-

ular cases pose the same puzzle as our more comprehensive

rejection of the checkerboard solution as a general strategy

for resolving differences over principle. We cannot explain

our hostility to internal compromise by appeal to principles

of either fairness or justice as we have defined those virtues.

Astronomers postulated Neptune before they discovered

it. They knew that only another planet, whose orbit lay be-

yond those already recognized, could explain the behavior of

the nearer planets. Our instincts about internal compromise

suggest another political i1deal standing beside justice and

fairness. Integrity is our Neptune. The most natural explana-

tion of why we oppose checkerboard statutes appeals to that

ideal: we say that a state that adopts these internal compro-

mises 1s acting in an unprincipled way, even though no sin-

gle official who voted for or enforces the compromise has

done anything which, judging his individual actions by the
