CONVENTIONALISM

T

surprise 1s inefficient and undesirable but that in some cir-

cumstances surprise must nevertheless be accepted because

of some other, then more important, principle or policy. He

must show that the bilateral structure of conventionalism ef-

fectively distinguishes between different circumstances:

those in which surprise should be avoided and those in

which it must, for these competing reasons, be tolerated.

Convention and Coordination

Some legal philosophers offer an argument attempting ex-

actly that. They try to explain why surprise 1s generally un-

desirable and also when 1t should nevertheless be accepted. I

shall present this argument in what I think 1s 1ts most per-

suasive form."” “The point of conventionalism is not just to

protect litigants against surprise, but instead the more com-

plex goal, which includes this one, of achieving the social

benefits of coordinated private and commercial activity.

People need rules in order to live and work together efh-

ciently, and they need to be protected when they rely on

those rules. But encouraging and rewarding reliance are not

always of decisive importance; it 1s sometimes better to leave

some matter unregulated by convention in order to allow the

play of independent judgment both by judges and by the

public in anticipation of what judges might do. This balance

between reliance and flexibility 1s made possible by the bi-

lateral framework of conventionalism. Convention estab-

lishes certain procedures so that when clear rules are

adopted according to these procedures, people can rely on

state intervention in their behalf; they can also rely on the

state not to intervene at the behest of other citizens except as

these rules stipulate and can plan and coordinate their af-

fairs accordingly. But when these procedures have left gaps,

people know they have no right to rely on anything, except

that if their activities do provoke litigation judges will decide

their fate by constructing what is, in the judges’ opinion at

least, the best rule for the future.”
