PRAGMATISM AND PERSONIFICATION

oL

emotional injury is unjust, he will have made the future less

unjust 1in the only way that counts for him: fewer people will

suffer the injustice of being made to compensate for this sort

of injury, which is better than more people suffering that in-

jJustice. Of course he thinks it would be better still from the

point of view of justice if no one was made to compensate for

emotional injury. But he may not have the power to overrule

the precedents; in any case, reasons of strategy argue against

this. So he does the best he can to limit the damage done by

the past, in efficiency or justice, by deciding against Mrs.

McLoughlin; if we object, we seem to have succumbed to a

fetishism of doctrinal elegance, slavery to coherence for its

Rk

It 1s not a good objection to his argument that different

pragmatist judges will make different decisions about how

best to limit past damage in hard cases. Of course they will,

but 1n hard cases judges must make controversial judgments

of political morality whichever conception of law they hold.

One party or the other will almost always be in a position to

complain that the judge has made a mistake, that the

“right” was his, not his opponent’s. Pragmatism claims to

risk error at least about the right issue. If judicial divisions

and controversial judgments are in any case inevitable, the

pragmatist asks, why should the controversy not be about

what really matters, about which decision will produce the

least ineflicient practice or the fewest occasions of injustice in

the future? How can that goal itself be unjust? How can con-

sistency 1n principle be important for its own sake, particu-

larly when it is uncertain and controversial what consistency

really requires? These are the questions we must answer if we

wish to sustain legal rights against the pragmatist challenge;

they are 1n no way easy questions, nor is this a feeble chal-

lenge. If we cannot meet it—i1f we cannot sustain the impor-

tance of consistency in principle against the charge of

fetishism—we must reconsider the popular disdain for prag-

matism as an interpretation of our legal practice. For the

rationality of our practice would then be in question, and a
