WHAT IS LAW?

g

official records that are available to journalists and contem-

porary historians criticizing a government, and so 1t affected

how government behaves.

DISAGREEMENT ABOUT LAW

Since it matters in these different ways how judges decide

cases, 1t also matters what they think the law 1s, and when

they disagree about this, 1t matters what kind of disagree-

ment they are having. Is there any mystery about that? Yes,

but we need some distinctions to see what it 1s. Lawsuits al-

ways raise, at least in principle, three different kinds of

issues: 1ssues of fact, i1ssues of law, and the twinned issues of

political morality and fidelity. First, what happened? Did

the man at the lathe really drop a wrench on his fellow

worker’s foot? Second, what is the pertinent law? Does the

law allow an injured worker damages from his employer for

that sort of injury? Third, if the law denies compensation, is

that unjust? If so, should judges ignore the law and grant

compensation anyway?

The first of these issues, the issue of fact, seems straight-

forward enough. If judges disagree over the actual, historical

events 1n controversy, we know what they are disagreeing

about and what kind of evidence would put the issue to rest

if it were available. The third issue, of morality and fidelity,

1s very different but also familiar. People often disagree

about moral right and wrong, and moral disagreement raises

no special problems when it breaks out in court. But what

about the second issue, the issue of law? Lawyers and judges

seem to disagree very often about the law governing a case;

they seem to disagree even about the right tests to use. One

judge, proposing one set of tests, says the law favors the

school district or the employer, and another, proposing a dif-

ferent set, that it favors the schoolchildren or the employee.

If this is really a third, distinct kind of argument, different

both from arguments over historical fact and from moral ar-
