STATUTES

326

But Smith might have voted for or against any such amend-

ment for any number of reasons: because she was anxious

to delay a congressional recess, for example, or did not

wish to antagonize its sponsor whose help she needed on

other matters, or because she was being blackmailed by

someone who happened to be a TVA official. It seems odd to

let the application of the statute depend on her counterfac-

tual vote for any of these reasons. There 1s a more basic difhi-

culty: how she would have voted would undoubtedly depend

on when and in what circumstances the amendment was 1n-

troduced and also on how it was worded. She might have

voted for it if it had been introduced early in the legislative

process, but not at the end, because then she would not have

wished to delay passage of the bill as a whole. Or she may

have voted for it in spite of her reservations if 1t had been in-

troduced as part of a package of amendments containing

others she wanted very much. Hermes must therefore design

some more precise counterfactual question: he must say

more than simply that it was an accident that no amend-

ment was introduced; he must state which amendment he

assumes would have been introduced but for that accident.

That question has no reasonable answer. It would be arbi-

trary to assume, for example, that if the problem had been

noticed a clarifying amendment would have been intro-

duced on its own just before the final vote. Should he say,

then, that Smith’s intention included a particular view

about the snail darter only if she would have voted for an

amendment to that effect no matter when or under what

circumstances it was offered? That 1s too strict: no provision

could pass that test. Indeed, i1t would seem too strong even to

say that the New York legislators would have approved an

amendment disabling murderers from inheriting no matter

when and 1n what circumstances that amendment had been

introduced.

The second contingency I mentioned—about the wording

of the hypothetical amendment—is even more troublesome.

I supposed that Smith was asked to vote on an amendment
