WHAT IS LAW?

9

ol deciding can count as enforcing rather than changing

the law. Then the judge has no option but to exercise a dis-

cretion to make new law by filling gaps where the law is si-

lent and making 1t more precise where it 1s vague.

None of this qualifies the plain-fact view that law is al-

ways a matter of historical fact and never depends on moral-

ity. It only adds that on some occasions trained lawyers may

discover that there is no law at all. Every question about

what the law is still has a flat historical answer, though some

have negative answers. Then the question of fidelity 1s re-

placed with a different question, equally distinct from the

question of law, which we may call the question of repair.

What should judges do in the absence of law? This new po-

litical question leaves room for a division of opinion very like

the original division over the question of fidelity. For judges

who have no choice but to make new law may bring differ-

ent ambitions to that enterprise. Should they fill gaps cau-

tiously, preserving as much of the spirit of the surrounding

law as possible? Or should they do so democratically, trying

to reach the result they believe represents the will of the peo-

ple? Or adventurously, trying to make the resulting law as

fair and wise as possible, in their opinion? Each of these very

different attitudes has its partisans in law school classrooms

and after-dinner speeches at professional organizations.

These are the banners, frayed with service, of jurisprudential

crusades.

Some academic lawyers draw especially radical conclu-

sions from the sophisticated version of the plain-fact view of

law.® They say that past institutional decisions are not just

occasionally but almost always vague or ambiguous or in-

complete, and that they are often inconsistent or even inco-

herent as well. They conclude that there is never really law

on any topic or issue, but only rhetoric judges use to dress up

decisions actually dictated by ideological or class preference.

['he career I have described, from the layman’s trusting be-

licf that law 1s everywhere to the cynic’s mocking discovery

that 1t 1s nowhere at all, 1s the natural course of conviction
