INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

54

tional interpretation addressed to an author. Here 1s a repre-

sentative statement of their complaint. “No doubt people

can make claims of the sort you describe the citizens of cour-

tesy making about social practices they share; no doubt they

can propose and contest opinions about how these practices

should be understood and continued. But it is a serious con-

fusion to call this interpretation, or to suggest that this is in

some way making sense of the practice itse/f. That i1s deeply

misleading 1n two ways. First, interpreting means trying to

understand something—a statement or gesture or text or

poem or painting, for example—in a particular and special

way. It means trying to discover the author’s motives or in-

tentions in speaking or acting or writing or painting as he

did. So interpreting a social practice, like your practice of

courtesy, can only mean discerning the intentions of its

members, one by one. Second, interpretation tries to show

the object of interpretation—the behavior or the poem or

the painting or the text in question—accurately, as it really 1s,

not as you suggest through rose-colored glasses or in its best

light. That means retrieving the actual, historical intentions

of its authors, not foisting the interpreter’s values on what

those authors created.”

I shall confront this objection in stages, and the following

advance outline of my argument might be helpful, though 1t

is necessarily condensed. I shall argue, first, that even if we

take the goal of artistic interpretation to be retrieving the

intention of an author, as the objection recommends, we

cannot escape using the strategies of constructive interpreta-

tion the objection condemns. We cannot avoid trying to

make of the artistic object the best, in our opinion, it can be.

I shall try to show, next, that if we do take the goal of artistic

interpretation to be discovering an author’s intention, this

must be a consequence of having applied the methods of con-

structlve interpretation to art, not of having rejected those

methods. I shall argue, finally, that the techniques of ordi-

nary conversational interpretation, in which the interpreter

aims to discover the intentions or meanings of another per-
