LAW BEYOND LAW

S 30N

cess 1s a matter of the right procedures for enforcing rules

and regulations the system has produced. Legislative su-

premacy, which obliges Hercules to give effect to statutes

even when these produce substantive incoherence, is a mat-

ter of fairness because it protects the power of the majority to

make the law it wants. Strict doctrines of precedent, the

practices of legislative history, and local priority are largely,

though in different ways, matters of procedural due process

because they encourage citizens to rely on doctrinal pro-

nouncements and assumptions that it would be wrong to be-

tray 1n judging them after the fact.

We can consolidate this explanation by drawing a new

distinction, between two levels or kinds of integrity. The ad-

judicative principle that governs our law enforces inclusive in-

tegrity: this requires a judge to take account of all the

component virtues. He constructs his overall theory of the

present law so that i1t reflects, so far as possible, coherent

principles of political fairness, substantive justice, and proce-

dural due process, and reflects these combined in the right

relation. The qualification “so far as possible” acknowledges

what we have just been noticing, that proper attention to

one of these virtues 1n an overall account of law will some-

times force compromise in the level of integrity that can be

achieved 1n another. Hercules must fold back, into his calcu-

lations about what the law is, the best interpretation of his

community’s principles of fairness, which define his own

powers against those of other institutions and ofhcers, and its

principles of due process, which are made pertinent by the

fact that judgments of law are predicate for backward-look-

ing attribution of blame and responsibility. So he must give

effect to statutes that pull against substantive coherence and

to precedents and local priorities that stand in the way of

consistency over different departments of law. He will there-

fore be aware of a different, more abstract calculation: pure

integrity abstracts from these various constraints of fairness

and process. It invites him to consider what the law would be
