CONVENTIONALISM

&P

cerned with past legal doctrine for special reasons bearing on

that 1ssue. If he believes he should make new law democrati-

cally, in the spirit of the present legislature or the present

climate of popular opinion, he might turn to past decisions

as evidence of what the legislature or public is likely to think

or want, for example. But he would then be treating the past

as evidence of present attitudes and convictions, not as im-

portant for its own sake, and he would lose interest in the

past as it aged and was therefore of less evidential value.

He would very probably find better evidence of present

attitudes 1n his own political experience or in the popular

press than in even fairly recent statutes enacted by a legisla-

ture most of whose members are now gone. Nor would his

evidentiary interest require him to examine past doctrine,

trying to chart its place in the law as a whole, in the ob-

sessive way judges do. If it is a nice and finely balanced

question whether the statute of wills 1s more consistent with

traditional principles of law if it is interpreted to forbid mur-

derers to inherit, then wrestling with that question is hardly

a sensible way of deciding what most people would now

favor. If it 1s a matter of delicate legal analysis what the best

interpretation of the precedents cited in McLoughlin would

require in that case, then any answer provides very weak

evidence about which decision would be most popular or

most beneficial for the future.

It may now be said, however, that a self-conscious con-

ventionalist would indeed ponder over past doctrine in the

way actual judges do, not for evidence of popular opinion

but more directly, because any lawmaker must take care to

make new law consistent with old. The search for consis-

tency, on this account, can explain why judges are so con-

cerned with the

past,

with

the wvarious statutes and

precedents lying in the neighborhood of the new law they

create 1n hard cases. There 1s a point in this suggestion, but

we cannot see 1t unless we are careful to distinguish between

two kinds of consistency a lawmaker might seek: consistency

in strategy and consistency in principle. Anyone who makes
