INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

SR

For we can assign them no sense, faithful to the role they ac-

tually play in our lives, that makes them not moral claims. If

anything is made less important by that point, it is external

skepticism, not our convictions.

Which Form of Skepticism?

How, then, should we understand the skeptic who makes

such heavy weather of declaring that there cannot be right

answers in morals or interpretation? He uses the metaphori-

cal rhetoric of external skepticism; he says he is attacking the

view that interpretive meanings are “out there” in the uni-

verse or that correct legal decisions are located in some

“transcendental reality.” He uses arguments familiar to ex-

ternal skeptics: he says that since people in different cultures

have different opinions about beauty and justice, these vir-

tues cannot be properties of the world independent of atti-

tude. But he plainly thinks his attack has the force of internal

skepticism: he insists that people interpreting poems or de-

ciding hard cases at law should not talk or act as 1f one view

could be right and others wrong. He cannot have it both

ways.

He attacks our ordinary beliets because he attributes to us

absurd claims we do not make. We do not say (nor can we

understand anyone who does say) that interpretation 1s like

physics or that moral values are “out there” or can be

proved. We only say, with different emphases, that Hamlet is

about delay and that slavery i1s wrong. The practices of in-

terpretation and morality give these claims all the meaning

they need or could have. If he thinks they are mistakes—

poor performances within these practices properly under-

stood—he needs to match our reasons and arguments, our

account of ourselves as participants, with contrary reasons

and arguments of his own. We do better for this critic, there-

fore, by seeing how far we can recast his arguments as argu-

ments of internal skepticism. Can we understand him to

be accusing us of moral rather than metaphysical mistakes?
