/A0

INTEGRITY IN LAW

[ —

S —

But sometimes the expansion will be deliberate and contro-

versial. Lawyers celebrate dozens of decisions of that charac-

ter, including several on which the modern law of negligence

was built.® Scholarship offers other important examples.”

Suppose a modest expansion of Hercules’ range of inquiry

does show that plaintiffs are denied compensation if their

physical injury was not reasonably foreseeable at the time

the careless defendant acted, thus ruling out interpretation

(4). But this does not eliminate either (5) or (6). He must ex-

pand his survey further. He must look also to cases involving

economic rather than physical or emotional injury, where

damages are potentially very great: for example, he must

look to cases in which professional advisers like surveyors or

accountants are sued for losses others suffer through their

negligence. Interpretation (5) suggests that such lability

might be unlimited in amount, no matter how ruinous in

total, provided that the damage is foreseeable, and (6) sug-

gests, on the contrary, that liability is limited just because of

the frightening sums it might otherwise reach. If one inter-

pretation is uniformly contradicted by cases of that sort and

finds no support in any other area of doctrine Hercules

might later inspect, and the other is confirmed by the ex-

pansion, he will regard the former as ineligible, and the lat-

ter alone will have survived. But suppose he finds, when he

expands his study 1n this way, a mixed pattern. Past deci-

sions permit extended liability for members of some profes-

sions but not for those of others, and this mixed pattern

holds for other areas of doctrine that Hercules, 1n the exer-

cise of his imaginative skill, finds pertinent.

The contradiction he has discovered, though genuine, is

not in itself so deep or pervasive as to justify a skeptical in-

terpretation of legal practice as a whole, for the problem of

unlimited damages, while important, i1s not so fundamental

that contradiction within 1t destroys the integrity of the

larger system. So Hercules turns to the second main dimen-

sion, but here, as in the chain-novel example, questions of fit

surface again, because an interpretation is pro tanto more sat-
