PRI

INTEGRITY

does not recognize any right of the farmers to these pay-

ments. A blind form of consistency would require the legisla-

ture to offer subsidies or payments for not planting to all

farmers, or at least to all farmers whose crops were essential

or who produced crops now in oversupply. But there might

be sound reasons of policy—perhaps of a very different

sort—why the legislature should not generalize these policies

in that way. Integrity is not violated just by accepting these

reasons and refusing to make the policy of subsidy more gen-

eral.

We shall notice in Chapter 8 an argument that might

seem to threaten this distinction because it shows that integ-

rity has force even in these decisions of policy. A government

that accepts what I shall there call the abstract egalitarian

principle, that 1t must treat 1ts citizens as equals, needs a

conception of equal concern, and integrity demands that the

government settle on a single conception that i1t will not dis-

avow in any decision, including those of policy. Many politi-

cians, for example, think that treating people as equals

means counting the welfare of each in some overall utilitar-

ian calculation; an institution that used that conception of

equal concern to justify some laws could not use a contra-

dictory conception—that equal concern requires material

equality among citizens, for instance—to justify other laws.

But in ordinary politics legislators must take a long view of

these requirements. They would be paralyzed if they under-

took to ensure that each decision, one by one, left each cit-

izen with exactly what the most sensitive utilitarian

calculation, for example, would assign him. A working polit-

ical theory must be more relaxed: it requires only that gov-

ernment pursue general strategies that promote the overall

good as defined roughly and statistically to match what

equal concern requires according to the conception in play.

So a government committed to the utilitarian conception

aims at legislative strategies that, as a whole and 1n the long

run, improve average welfare better than alternate strategies

would; a government committed to material equality adopts
