66

INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

practice are identified. (The equivalent stage in literary in-

terpretation is the stage at which discrete novels, plays, and

so forth are identified textually, that 1s, the stage at which

the text of Moby-Dick is identified and distinguished from the

text of other novels.) I enclose “preinterpretive” in quotes

because some kind of interpretation is necessary even at this

stage. Social rules do not carry identifying labels. But a very

great degree of consensus 1s needed—perhaps an interpretive

community 1s usefully defined as requiring consensus at this

stage—if the interpretive attitude is to be fruitful, and we

may therefore abstract from this stage in our analysis by

presupposing that the classifications it yields are treated as

given in day-to-day reflection and argument.

Second, there must be an interpretive stage at which the

interpreter settles on some general justification for the main

elements of the practice identified at the preinterpretive

stage. This will consist of an argument why a practice of that

general shape is worth pursuing, if it 1s. The justification

need not fit every aspect or feature of the standing practice,

but 1t must fit enough for the interpreter to be able to see

himself as interpreting that practice, not inventing a new

one.'® Finally, there must be a postinterpretive or reforming

stage, at which he adjusts his sense of what the practice

“really” requires so as better to serve the justification he ac-

cepts at the interpretive stage. An interpreter of courtesy, for

example, may come to think that a consistent enforcement of

the best justification of that practice would require people to

tip their caps to soldiers returning from a crucial war as well

as to nobles. Or that it calls for a new exception to an estab-

lished pattern of deference: making returning soldiers ex-

empt from displays of courtesy, for example. Or perhaps

even that an entire rule stipulating deference to an entire

group or class or persons must be seen as a mistake in the

17

light of that justification.

Actual interpretation in my imaginary society would be

much less deliberate and structured than this analytical

structure suggests. People’s interpretive judgments would be
