LAW BEYOND LAW

410

the imperatives of integrity always challenge today’s law

with the possibilities of tomorrow’s, that every decision in a

hard case is a vote for one of law’s dreams.

EPILOGUE: WHAT IS LAW?

Law is an interpretive concept. Judges should decide what

the law 1s by interpreting the practice of other judges decid-

ing what the law 1s. General theories of law, for us, are gen-

eral interpretations of our own judicial practice. We rejected

conventionalism, which finds the best interpretation in the

1dea that judges discover and enforce special legal conven-

tions, and pragmatism, which finds it in the different story of

judges as independent architects of the best future, free from

the inhibiting demand that they must act consistently in

principle with one another. I urged the third conception, law

as integrity, which unites jurisprudence and adjudication. It

makes the content of law depend not on special conventions

or independent crusades but on more refined and concrete

interpretations of the same legal practice 1t has begun to in-

terpret.

These more concrete interpretations are distinctly legal

because they are dominated by the adjudicative principle of

inclusive integrity. Adjudication is different from legislation,

not in some single, univocal way, but as the complicated

consequence of the dominance of that principle. We tracked

its impact by acknowledging the stronger force of integrity

in adjudication that makes it sovercign over judgments of

law, though not inevitably over the verdicts of courts, by no-

ticing how legislation invites judgments of policy that adju-

dication does not, by observing how inclusive integrity en-

forces distinct judicial constraints of role. Integrity does

not enforce itself: judgment is required. That judgment is

structured by different dimensions of interpretation and dif-

ferent aspects of these. We noticed how convictions about fit

contest with and constrain judgments of substance, and how
