INTEGRITY

217

do this most efficiently, I am afraid, by collecting observa-

tions 1n the untidy form of a list under two general headings.

Legislation and Adjudication

I do not claim, as part of my interpretive thesis, that our po-

litical practices enforce integrity perfectly. I conceded that it

would not be possible to bring all the discrete rules and other

standards enacted by our legislatures and still in force under

any single, coherent scheme of principle. Our commitment

to integrity means, however, that we must report this fact as

a defect, not as the desirable result of a fair division of politi-

cal power between different bodies of opinion, and that we

must strive to remedy whatever inconsistencies in principle

we are forced to confront. Even this weaker claim requires

further qualification, or at least clarification.

I distinguished two branches or forms of integrity by list-

ing two principles: integrity in legislation and integrity in

adjudication. The first restricts what our legislators and

other lawmakers may properly do in expanding or changing

our public standards. The second requires our judges, so far

as this is possible, to treat our present system of public stan-

dards as expressing and respecting a coherent set of princi-

ples, and, to that end, to interpret these standards to find

implicit standards between and beneath the explicit ones.

Integrity, for us, is a virtue beside justice and fairness and

due process, but that does not mean that in either of the two

forms just distinguished integrity 1s necessarily or always

sovereign over the other virtues. The legislature should be

gulded by the legislative principle of integrity, and that ex-

plains why it must not enact checkerboard statutes just out

of a concern for fairness. But checkerboard statutes are a fla-

grant and easily avoidable violation of integrity; it does not

follow that the legislature must never, in any circumstances,

make law more inconsistent in principle than it already is.

Suppose the legislature is persuaded that the standing
