40

WHAT IS LAW?

Nevertheless there are borderline cases. People do not all fol-

low exactly the same rule; some would say that Buckingham

Palace i1s a house while others would not.

'This more sophisticated defense of positivism tells a some-

what different story about our sample cases from the “fin-

gers-crossed” story. According to this new story, Earl and

Gray and the other judges and lawyers were in no way pre-

tending or trying to deceive the public. They were dis-

agreeing about the state of the law, but their disagreement

was a ‘“merely verbal” one like a disagreement about

whether Buckingham Palace is a house. From our standpoint

as critics, according to this defense, 1t is better to think of

their argument as one about repair, about what the law

should be, because we will understand the legal process bet-

ter 1f we use “law” only to describe what lies within the core

of that concept, if we use it, that is, to cover only proposi-

tions of law true according to the central or main rule for

using “law” that everyone accepts, like the propositions of

the highway code. It would be better if lawyers and judges

used “law” that way, just as it would be better if no one ar-

gued about the correct classification of Buckingham Palace

but instead agreed to use “house” in the same way whenever

they could. So positivism, defended 1n this different way, has

a reforming as well as a descriptive character. In any case,

the defense protects the plain-fact thesis. It treats the main

question 1n each of our sample cases as a question of repair,

even though the judges themselves might not have conceived

it that way, and encourages us to evaluate their performance

by asking how judges should develop new law when some

case cannot be resolved by applying rules about the grounds

of law that all lawyers accept.

The new story is in one way like the fingers-crossed story,

however: it leaves wholly unexplained why the legal pro-

fession should have acted for so long in the way the story

claims 1t has. For sensible people do not quarrel over

whether Buckingham Palace 1s really a house; they under-

stand at once that this 1s not a genuine issue but only a mat-
