THE COMMON LAW

291

nary people. It is not so difficult to imagine changes in the

economic or social or psychological climate that would make

our familiar intuitions not the best for a utilitarian to instill.

Sadistic bigots might become so numerous among us, their

capacity for delight so profound, and their tastes so ineradi-

cable that even at the first level—when we are considering

what rules would increase happiness in the very long run—

we would be forced to make exceptions to our general rules

and to permit the torture of blacks alone. It 1s not a good an-

swer that luckily there is no genuine possibility of that situa-

tion arising. For once again the point of horrifying stories is

not to provide a practical warning—that if we are seduced

by utilitarianism we may well find ourselves advocating tor-

ture—but to expose defects in the academic elaboration of

the theory by calling attention to moral convictions that re-

main powerful even in hypothetical form. If we believe that

it would be unjust to torture blacks even in the (extremely

improbable) circumstances when that would increase aver-

age happiness, if we think that that practice would not treat

people as equals, then we reject the second step of our utili-

tarian argument.

Two Strategies

But let us once again, for the sake of the argument, assume

that the second step 1s sound, that treating people with equal

concern does mean maximizing average happiness. We now

move back to the first step. Now we ask whether, even if we

concede the last two steps, it is reasonable to suppose that

everyone has a moral duty always to act in market-simulat-

ing ways when actual negotiation is for some reason not fea-

sible. It 1s time to notice an intuitive connection between

wealth maximization and equality that might make that

idea seem reasonable. The legal doctrines of negligence and

nuisance I described strike a moral chord. It seems plausi-

ble that when accidents are likely, people ought to look out

for each other’s interests in the same way and to the same
