CONVENTIONALISM

L

ventionalist judge we just imagined, who worries whether

deciding against Mrs. McLoughlin would be efficient in vir-

tue of the precedents that mothers may recover for emo-

tional injury sustained at the scene, has no need to look for

any larger underlying principle “embedded” in these prece-

dents or to defend one controversial view about the content

of these principles. His interest in the precedents 1s ex-

hausted, for this purpose at least, once he is satisfied that ac-

cording to his conception of law they establish only that

mothers at the scene have a right to recover, and this is clear

immediately and with no reflection about larger underlying

principles whose nature is a matter of dispute.

Consistency in principle 1s a different matter. It requires

that the various standards governing the state’s use of coer-

cion against its citizens be consistent in the sense that they

express a single and comprehensive vision of justice. A judge

who aimed at consistency in principle would indeed worry,

as the judges in our sample cases did, about the principles

that should be understood to justify past statutes and prece-

dents. If he were tempted to decide against Mrs. McLough-

lin, he would indeed ask himself whether any principled

distinction could be drawn between her case and the case of

mothers who recover for emotional damage suffered at the

scene. If he were inclined to decide against Elmer, he would

worry whether this decision is consistent with the position

statutes occupy in our general scheme of jurisprudence, as he

understands this.

But conventionalism differs from law as integrity precisely

because the former rejects consistency in principle as a

source of legal rights. The latter accepts 1t: law as integrity

supposes that people have legal rights—rights that follow

from past decisions of political institutions and therefore li-

cense coercion—that go beyond the explicit extension of po-

litical practices conceived as conventions. Law as integrity

supposes that people are entitled to a coherent and princi-

pled extension of past political decisions even when judges

profoundly disagree about what this means. Conventional-
