NOTES TO PAGES 313-339

Ty

Q. STATUTES

1. Since the political decision Hercules i1s now interpreting is a

statute rather than a series of past judicial decisions, matters of

policy are pertinent to his decision which rights the statute should

be deemed to have created.

2. Nor would he find answers independent of his own convic-

tions by looking to see what his fellow judges do, because practice

differs among them. He would need to interpret their practice in

the way described in the last two chapters and make essentially

the same judgments about political fairness in deciding which in-

terpretation showed judicial practice better on the whole.

3. Compare the “intention-vote” theory developed by P. Brest

in “The Misconceived Quest for the Original Understanding,” 60

Boston Uniwversity Law Review 204, 212-15 (1980).

4- Of course, 1f there were an established and settled rule about

how statutes like the Endangered Species Act were to be inter-

preted, a rule dictating, for example, that judges must read the

statute “narrowly” to give the secretary as little power as possible,

then congressmen would of course use that rule to predict what

would happen to their statutes in court. If Hermes deferred to the

rule, he would be doing what legislators expected but not because

they expected it. The rule, that is;, would explain both how

Hermes decided and what judges predicted, but 1t would explain

these independently of one another. There 1s no such rule, how-

ever, and Hermes is therefore interested in legislative predictions

not just as matching his decision but as the ground of it. That is

the option I argue would be self-defeating.

5. For an excellent account of the difficulties in determining the

truth or falsity of counterfactual statements, see Nelson Goodman,

““The Problem of Counterfactual Conditionals,” in Fact, Fiction and

Forecast 1-27 (4th ed., Cambridge, Mass., 1983).

6. For a discussion of opaque contexts, see W. V. O. Quine,

Word and Object, 140-56 (Cambridge, Mass., 1960).

7. Integrity in this form might lead him to reject an interpreta-

tion that would be closer to the concrete intentions of the drafts-

man. Scc¢ Lord Denning’s dissenting opinion in Macarthys Ltd. v.

Smuth [1979] 3 All ER 325, 330. I owe this example to Sheldon

Leader.

8. Though integrity, by definition, is a matter of principle,
