INTEGRITY

R P

anyone behaved irresponsibly? Even 1f we were to accept

that no legislator should vote for the compromise, this would

not explain why we should reject the compromise as an out-

come. For we can easily imagine a legislative structure that

would produce compromise statutes mechanically, as a

function of the different opinions about strict hability or ra-

cial discrimination or abortion among the various legisla-

tors, without any legislator being asked or required to vote

for the compromise as a package. It might be understood in

advance that the proportion of women who would be per-

mitted an abortion would be fixed by the ratio of votes for

permitting all abortions to total votes. If we still object, then

our objection cannot be based on the principle that no indi-

vidual should vote against his conscience.

So it seems we have no reason of justice for rejecting the

checkerboard strategy in advance, and strong reasons of

fairness for endorsing 1t. Yet our instincts condemn it. In-

deed many of us, to different degrees in different situations,

would reject the checkerboard solution not only in general

and in advance, but even in particular cases 1f it were avail-

able as a possibility. We would prefer either of the alterna-

tive solutions to the checkerboard compromise. Even if I

thought strict liability for accidents wrong in principle, I

would prefer that manufacturers of both washing machines

and automobiles be held to that standard than that only one

of them be. I would rank the checkerboard solution not 1n-

termediate between the other two but third, below both, and

so would many other people. In some cases this instinct

might be explained as reflecting the unworkability or inefh-

ciency of a particular checkerboard solution. But many of

those we can imagine, like the abortion solution, are not par-

ticularly inefficient, and in any case our Instinct suggests

that these compromises are wrong, not merely impractical.

Not everyone would condemn every checkerboard solu-

tion. People who believe very strongly that abortion is al-

ways murder, for example, may indeed think that the

checkerboard abortion statute is better than a wholly per-
