WHAT IS LAW?

P

produce an unneeded increase (or so the conservationists be-

lieved) in hydroelectric power. The conservationists discov-

ered that one almost finished TVA dam, costing over one

hundred million dollars, would be likely to destroy the only

habitat of the snail darter, a three-inch fish of no particular

beauty or biological interest or general ecological impor-

tance. They persuaded the secretary to designate the snail

darter as endangered and brought proceedings to stop the

dam from being completed and used.

The authority argued that the statute should not be con-

strued to prevent the completion or operation of any project

substantially completed when the secretary made his order.

It said the phrase ‘“actions authorized, funded, or carried

out” should be taken to refer to beginning a project, not

completing projects begun earlier. It supported its claim by

pointing to various acts of Congress, all taken after the secre-

tary had declared that completing the dam would destroy

the snail darter, which suggested that Congress wished the

dam to be completed notwithstanding that declaration.

Congress had specifically authorized funds for continuing

the project after the secretary’s designation, and various of

its committees had specifically and repeatedly declared that

they disagreed with the secretary, accepted the authority’s

interpretation of the statute, and wished the project to con-

Tty

The Supreme Court nevertheless ordered that the dam be

halted, in spite of the great waste of public funds. (Congress

then enacted a further statute establishing a general proce-

dure for exemption from the act, based on findings by a re-

view board.)"> Chief Justice Warren Burger wrote an opinion

for the majority of the justices. He said, in words that recall

Judge Gray’s opinion in Elmer’s case, that when the text is

clear the Court has no right to refuse to apply it just because

1t believes the results silly. Times change, however, and the

chief justice’s opinion was in one respect very different from

Judge Gray’s. Burger recognized the relevance of congres-

sional intention to the decision what statute Congress had
