INTEGRITY

207

most people do not choose their political communities but

are born into them or brought there in childhood. If we ar-

range familiar fraternal communities along a spectrum

ranging from full choice to no choice in membership, politi-

cal communities fall somewhere in the center. Political obli-

gations are less involuntary than many obligations of family,

because political communities do allow people to emigrate,

and though the practical value of this choice is often very

small the choice itself 1s important, as we know when we

contemplate tyrannies that deny it. So people who are mem-

bers of bare political communities have political obligations,

provided the other conditions necessary to obligations of fra-

ternity, appropriately defined for a political community, are

met.

We must therefore ask what account of these conditions is

appropriate for a political community, but first we should

pause to consider the following complaint about this “solu-

tion” of the problem of legitimacy. “It does not solve the

problem but evades it by denying there is any problem at

all.” There 1s some justice in this complaint, but not enough

to be damaging here. The new approach, it 1s true, relocates

the problem of legitimacy and so hopes to change the char-

acter of the argument. It asks those who challenge the very

possibility of political legitimacy to broaden their attack and

either deny all associative obligations or show why political

obligation cannot be associative. It asks those who defend le-

gitimacy to test their claims on a new and expanded field of

argument. It invites political philosophers of either disposi-

tion to consider what a bare political community must be

like before it can claim to be a true community where com-

munal obligations flourish.

We have no difficulty finding in political practice the con-

ditions of bare community. People disagree about the

boundaries of political communities, particularly in colonial

circumstances or when standing divisions among nations 1g-

nore important historical or ethnic or religious identities.

But these can be treated as problems of interpretation, and
