P

WHAT IS LAW?

made. But he did not accept Earl’s principle about the way

in which congressional intention is relevant. He refused to

consider the counterfactual test that Earl’s analysis made de-

cisive. “It 1s not for us,” he said, “to speculate, much less act,

on whether Congress would have altered its stance had the

specific events of this case been anticipated.”"

Instead he adopted what I called, in discussing Earl’s

opinion, the excessively weak version of the idea that judges

constructing a statute must respect the legislature’s inten-

tions. That version comes to this: if the acontextual meaning

of the words in the text is clear—if the words “carry out”

would normally include continuing as well as beginning a

project—then the Court must assign those words that mean-

ing unless it can be shown that the legislature actually in-

tended the opposite result. The legislative history leading up

to the enactment of the Endangered Species Act did not

warrant that conclusion, he said, because Congress plainly

wanted to give endangered species a high order of protection

even at great cost to other social goals, and 1t is certainly

possible, even if not probable, that legislators with that gen-

eral aim would want the snail darter saved even at the

amazing expense of a wasted dam. He rejected the evidence

of the later committee reports and the actions of Congress in

approving funding for the continuation of the dam, which

might have been thought to indicate an actual intention not

to sacrifice the dam to this particular species. The commit-

tees that had reported in favor of the dam were not the same

as the committees that had sponsored the act in the first

place, he said, and congressmen often vote on appropriations

without fully considering whether the proposed expenditures

are legal under past congressional decisions.

Justice Lewis Powell wrote a dissent for himself and one

other justice. He said that the majority’s decision con-

structed an absurd real statute from the text of the Endan-

gered Species Act. “It is not our province,” he said, ‘“‘to

rectify policy or political judgments by the Legislative Branch,

however egregiously they may disserve the public inter-
