WHAT IS LAW?

Y

ism remains deeply implausible as a semantic theory. For it

1s hardly contradictory—indeed it is common—for lawyers

to predict that judges will make a mistake about the law or

for judges to state their view of the law and then add that

they hope and expect that the law will be changed.

Defending Positivism

I shall concentrate on legal positivism because, as I just said,

this 1s the semantic theory that supports the plain-fact view

and the claim that genuine argument about law must be

empirical rather than theoretical. If positivism 1s right, then

the appearance of theoretical disagreement about the

grounds of law, in Elmer’s case and McLoughlin and the snail

darter case and Brown, i1s in some way misleading. In these

cases past legal institutions had not expressly decided the

1ssue either way, so lawyers using the word “law” properly

according to positivism would have agreed there was no law

to discover. Their disagreement must therefore have been

disguised argument about what the law should be. But we

can restate that inference as an argument against positivism.

For why should lawyers and judges pretend to theoretical

disagreement 1n cases like these? Some positivists have a

quick answer: judges pretend to be disagreeing about what

the law 1s because the public believes there 1s always law and

that judges should always follow it. On this view lawyers and

judges systematically connive to keep the truth from the

people so as not to disillusion them or arouse their ignorant

Eh el o

This quick answer 1s unpersuasive. It 1s mysterious why

the pretense should be necessary or how it could be suc-

cessful. If lawyers all agree there is no decisive law in cases

like our sample cases, then why has this view not become

part of our popular political culture long ago? And if it has

not—1if most people still think there is always law for judges

to follow—why should the profession fear to correct their

error in the interests of a more honest judicial practice? In
