INTEGRITY IN LAW

270

the state to compel him to compensate each of his victims in

full. It might be a desirable accommodation of the two prin-

ciples for the state to require the defendant to compensate

some victims, or some victims to some extent, and then make

up the balance of loss to other victims from the public trea-

sury. But in the absence of any statute providing this, or any

common-law tradition of state compensation that might be

tapped, this is not an interpretive possibility. I am limited by

the record I find to deciding that one of the two principles

must yleld in these circumstances. If the first prevails, it is

decisive for the defendant that the loss would be much

greater for him if full liability were imposed than for any

potential plaintiff if it were not. If the second prevails, the

fact of the defendant’s fault is decisive against him 1n spite of

the magnitude of his potential overall loss.

“It must be conceded [we are still assuming the worst case]

that the state has thus far not spoken with one voice about

such cases. Some judicial decisions have allowed the second

principle to prevail over the first, which is the solution

claimed by interpretation (5), and some have allowed the

first to prevail over the second, in the way recommended by

(6). My interpretive situation is therefore as follows. The

constraints of fit require me to find a place in any general

interpretation of our legal practice for both of the more ab-

stract principles of sympathy and responsibility. No general

interpretation that denied either one would be plausible; in-

tegrity could not be served if either were wholly disavowed.

But integrity demands some resolution of their competing

impact on accident cases when unlimited liability would be

disastrous, a choice that our practice has not made but that

must flow, as a postinterpretive judgment, from my analysis.

Integrity demands this because it demands that I continue

the overall story, in which the two principles have a definite

place, in the best way, all things considered. In my view this

is done best by ranking the second principle prior to the first,

at least in automobile accident cases when liability insur-

ance 1s available privately on sensible terms. I settle on this
