LAW BEYOND LAW

408

holds of that conception of equality in other departments of

the law. We can cite, for example, the sporadic, sometimes

retreating, but overall forward progress of redistribution to-

ward handicapped people and those who are unlucky in

other respects, and we can argue that this overall develop-

ment Is better explained by equality of resources than by

other conceptions of what it means to treat people as equals.

We favor this conception ourselves; now we claim that it is

the goal of law purified, the community’s star in its search

for integrity seen from the standpoint of justice alone. What

kind of argument have we begun?

Another philosopher of our law holds up a contrary, com-

peting vision. He sees law purified as law more thoroughly

utilitarian in an unrestricted sense, more consistently and ac-

curately devoted to maximizing the uncritical satisfaction of

people’s overall preferences. Another describes a more com-

munitarian vision; this supposes law purified of individual

rights that corrupt the community’s sense, which this vision

endorses, that the only good is communal good, that lives are

best lived under shared standards of what lives are best. We

cannot defeat these other visions by measuring out and

comparing the tracts of law that fit ours and theirs. None fits

well enough to dominate present law overall; all fit well

enough to claim a base within 1t. The argument must now

move to the plane of abstract political morality; it must

move toward arguments of utopian theory. But the argu-

ment still belongs to law, at least in an attenuated sense, be-

cause each contestant begins by establishing a contemporary

shadow of the future he celebrates. (Neither a Marxist nor a

fascist could find enough present law distinctively explained

by his political philosophy to qualify for the contest.) The

connection with ordinary legal argument, though atten-

uated, is crucial because 1t gives the philosophical argument

a distinct yet complementary role in the larger politics of

A

Each of the contesting philosophies uses and respects in-
