STATUTES

SRR

in public opinion or economic or ecological circumstance

have been great, those intervening political decisions will

have been made in a very different spirit, so an interpreta-

tion embracing them and the act will likely be different from

an interpretation required to fit the act alone. The argument

from legislative history will again be sensitive to time, but in

a different way. That argument is the converse of the argu-

ment from fairness: it ignores private convictions; it fixes on

formal public statements that quality as declarations of the

community itself. These declarations are nevertheless not

part of the statute; they are reports of public purpose and

conviction, and so they are naturally vulnerable to reassess-

ment.

People have less reason to rely on these statements as the

statute ages because they will have been supplemented and

perhaps replaced, as formal interpretations of public com-

mitment, by a variety of other interpretive explanations at-

tached to later statutes on related

R ol

These later

statements provide a more contemporary account of how the

community’s officials understand its standing commitments

of principle and operating strategies of policy.'' So Hercules

will pay less and less attention to the original legislative his-

tory, and here again his method stands in contrast to the

speaker’s meaning theory, which looks only to statements

contemporary with a statute’s enactment. Hercules inter-

prets history in motion, because the story he must make as

good as 1t can be is the whole story through his decision and

beyond. He does not amend out-of-date statutes to suit new

times, as the metaphysics of speaker’s meaning would sug-

gest. He recognizes what the old statutes have since become.

WHEN IS THE LANGUAGE CLEAR?

I must now pay a debt that has been steadily growing larger.

I have been asking how Hercules should read a statute when

its language it not clear, that 1s, when 1t does not, as we
