88

JURISPRUDENCE REVISITED

goal or principle—of legal practice as a whole, and these

convictions will inevitably be different, at least in detail,

from those of other judges. Nevertheless, a variety of forces

tempers these differences and conspires toward convergence.

Every community has paradigms of law, propositions that in

practice cannot be challenged without suggesting either cor-

ruption or ignorance. Any American or British judge who

denied that speed regulations were part of the law would be

replaced, and this fact discourages radical interpretations.

The most powerful influences toward convergence, however,

are internal to the character of interpretation. The practice

of precedent, which no judge’s interpretation can wholly 1g-

nore, presses toward agreement; each judge’s theories of

what judging really is will incorporate by reference, through

whatever account and restructuring of precedent he settles

on, aspects of other popular interpretations of the day.

Judges think about law, moreover, within society, not apart

from 1t; the general intellectual environment, as well as the

common language that reflects and protects that environ-

ment, exercises practical constraints on idiosyncrasy and

conceptual constraints on 1imagination. The 1nevitable con-

servatism of formal legal education, and of the process of se-

lecting lawyers for judicial and administrative office, adds

further centripetal pressure.

It would be a mistake to ignore these various unifying and

socializing factors, but a more insidious and dangerous mis-

take to exaggerate their power. The dynamics of interpre-

tation resist as well as promote convergence, and the

centrifugal forces are particularly strong where the profes-

sional as well as the larger community is divided over justice.

Different judges belong to different and rival political tradi-

tions, and the cutting edge of different judges’ interpreta-

tions will be honed by different ideologies. Nor 1s this to be

deplored. On the contrary, law gains in power when it is

sensitive to the frictions and stresses of its

intellectual

sources. Law would founder 1if the various interpretive

theories in play in court and classroom diverged too much in
