INTEGRITY IN LAW

SR

of common law. He knows that other judges have decided

cases that, although not exactly like his case, deal with re-

lated problems; he must think of their decisions as part of a

long story he must interpret and then continue, according to

his own judgment of how to make the developing story as

good as it can be. (Of course the best story for him means

best from the standpoint of political morality, not aesthet-

ics.) We can make a rough distinction once again between

two main dimensions of this interpretive judgment. The

judge’s decisiton—his postinterpretive conclusions—must be

drawn from an interpretation that both fits and justifies

what has gone before, so far as that 1s possible. But in law as

in literature the interplay between fit and justification is

complex. Just as interpretation within a chain novel 1s for

each interpreter a delicate balance among different types of

literary and artistic attitudes, so 1n law 1t 1s a delicate bal-

ance among political convictions of different sorts; in law as

in literature these must be sufhciently related yet disjoint to

allow an overall judgment that trades off an interpretation’s

success on one type of standard against its failure on an-

other. I must try to exhibit that complex structure of legal

interpretation, and I shall use for that purpose an imaginary

judge of superhuman intellectual power and patience who

accepts law as integrity.

Call him Hercules.* In this and the next several chapters

we follow his career by noticing the types of judgments he

must make and tensions he must resolve in deciding a vari-

ety of cases. But I offer this caution in advance. We must not

suppose that his answers to the various questions he encoun-

ters define law as integrity as a general conception of law.

They are the answers I now think best. But law as integrity

consists In an approach, in questions rather than answers,

and other lawyers and judges who accept it would give dif-

ferent answers from his to the questions 1t asks. You might

think other answers would be better. (So might I, after fur-

ther thought.) You might, for example, reject Hercules’

views about how far people’s legal rights depend on the rea-
