THE COMMON LAW

SR

when we consider a nonutilitarian account of accident and

nuisance law I shall argue 1s superior. But the connection

can be described informally in this way. Our legal practice

recognizes what are often called prima facie legal rights in

property, but which I shall call abstract rights. I have an ab-

stract legal right to run my trains along the road bed I own,

as you have to plant corn on your field next to it. I have an

abstract right to use my apartment as I wish and therefore to

play my trumpet, as you have to use yours as you wish and

therefore to be free to study algebra in peace. We call these

rights prima facie or abstract because we know that they can

conflict: my exercise of my right may invade or restrict yours,

in which case the question arises which of us has an actual or

concrete right to do what he wishes. It 1s in these circum-

stances—the domain of negligence and nuisance and other

forms of unintended damage law—that we believe the egali-

tarian responsibility arises. I must decide on my concrete

rights—may I speed my train or blow my trumpet here and

now?—in some way that respects your interests as much as

my own, not because I must always act in that way, but be-

cause I must do so when our abstract rights compete. I have

no such responsibility when they do not compete. I make

most of the important decisions of my life on the premise

that I am morally free to pay somewhat more attention to

my life than to the lives of others, though of course that does

not mean I am free to ignore others entirely.

That is a fair statement of ordinary moral attitudes, which

someone who takes up the utilitarian argument we are test-

ing must confront. He might say these attitudes are wrong

because they display an indefensible selfishness. He might

insist that, however radical this might seem, we must always,

in everything we do, test our conduct by asking whether it

treats everyone’s interests as equally important to our own.

But that is a very implausible claim, at least when joined to

the market simulation theory of what it would require in

practice. Almost any decision we make can be thought of as

the subject of some hypothetical negotiation, so we should
