THE CONSTITUTION

Lok

sues. It supposes, in other words, that people have no distinct

right not to be the victim of racial or other discrimination

beyond what the rationality restraint already requires. If a

state generally adopts some view of the general welfare, like

that proposed by utilitarianism or equality of resources on

the market model, in which gains to some are balanced

against losses to others, then it meets the Constitutional

standard against discrimination simply by counting every-

one’s welfare or choices in the same way. Race and similar

grounds of distinction are special, on this account, only be-

cause history suggests that some groups are more likely than

others to be denied the consideration due them, so political

decisions that work to their disadvantage should be viewed

with special suspicion. Even though the courts will not ordi-

narily review political decisions that benefit some groups

more than others, unless these are shown to be “irrational”

in the sense just described, it will inspect these decisions

more carefully when historically mistreated minorities are

disadvantaged.

Nevertheless, the standard requires only that these groups

receive the right consideration in the overall balance, and a

state may meet that standard even though i1t treats them

differently from others. It might justify segregated schools,

for example, by showing that integration would provide an

inferior educational environment because 1t would outrage

long-standing traditions of racial separation and that the

damage to white children would then more than offset any

gains to black children, even counting these gains as equally

important in themselves, child by child. It might add that

the facilities it has assigned to blacks, though separate, are

nevertheless equal in quality. Or, even 1if they are not equal,

that they cannot be improved except through special ex-

pense that would count the interests of each black child as

more important, in the overall calculation, than the interests

of each of the larger number of white children.

2. Banned categories. The second theory on Hercules’ list in-

sists that the Constitution does recognize a distinct right
