THE COMMON LAW

240

neighborhoods, i1t should aim to create exactly the legal

rights that market transactions, were these feasible, would

have established. The egalitarian argument does not have

that consequence, because the legislature, unlike private citi-

zens, has both obligations and opportunities to improve the

distribution its law has so far created; it has responsibilities

they do not have, and means and strategies not open to

them.

Our case for the egalitarian interpretation began, in fact,

in exactly that distinction. We assumed that government has

a general, pervasive duty that private citizens, as individu-

als, do not. Government must constantly survey and alter its

rules of property, radically if necessary, to bring them closer

to the 1deal of treating people as equals under the best con-

ception. Market simulation, which assumes the adequacy of

the scheme already in place, would be a grotesquely circular

and feeble weapon for that purpose. So our explanation, be-

ginning in a division of responsibility, denies that the eco-

nomic principle furnishes an exclusive test for legislation

touching either the main structures of the economic system

or more detailed regulations of it.

We must end this study of equality and property by re-

turning once more to the distinction between policy and

principle, because it adds another dimension to the contrast

between public and private responsibility we have been ex-

ploring. Our main argument supposes that private citizens

must treat occasions of conflict between abstract legal rights

as raising 1ssues of principle about the concrete rights each

party finally has. But it does not follow that the legislature

must treat every decision it makes in regulating and dis-

tributing property, or even its statutes about nuisance and

negligence, as matters of principle rather than policy. We

insist that government design its system of property to treat

people as equals under an appropriate conception; that is

the foundation of our argument for the egalitarian interpre-

tation of these branches of the law. But as we saw in Chap-

ter 6, government must treat that requirement mainly in the
