INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

IR

for example, that respect is part of the “very meaning” of

courtesy. They mean, not that anyone who denies this is

guilty of self-contradiction or does not know how to use the

word “‘courtesy,” but only that what he says marks him as

outside the community of useful or at least ordinary dis-

course about the institution. Our philosopher will serve his

community 1if he can display this structure and isolate this

“conceptual” connection between courtesy and respect. He

can capture it in the proposition that, for this community,

respect provides the concept of courtesy and that competing

positions about what respect really requires are conceptions of

that concept. The contrast between concept and conception

is here a contrast between levels of abstraction at which the

interpretation of the practice can be studied. At the first

level agreement collects around discrete 1deas that are un-

controversially employed in all interpretations; at the second

the controversy latent in this abstraction is i1dentified and

taken up. Exposing this structure may help to sharpen argu-

ment and will in any case improve the community’s under-

standing of its intellectual environment.

The distinction between concept and conception, under-

stood in this spirit and made for these purposes, 1s very dif-

ferent from the

more familiar distinction between the

meaning of a word and its extension. Our philosopher has

succeeded, we are supposing, in Imposing a certain structure

on his community’s practice such that particular substan-

tive theories can be identified and understood as subinter-

pretations of a more abstract idea. In one way his analysis, 1f

successful, must also be uncontroversial, because his claim—

that respect provides the concept of courtesy—fails unless

people are by and large agreed that courtesy 1s a matter of

respect. But though uncontroversial in this way, his claim is

interpretive not semantic; it 1s not a claim about linguistic

ground rules everyone must follow to make sense. Nor is his

claim timeless: it holds in virtue of a pattern of agreement

and disagreement that might, as in the story I told earlier,

disappear tomorrow. And his claim can be challenged at any
