THE CONSTITUTION

KA

Someone reviewing these arguments might describe their

upshot this way. “The law requires immediate dismantling

of segregation, but various practical reasons of policy of the

sort just described counsel against 1t, so Hercules must de-

cide whether to compromise law with policy.” This descrip-

tion 1s partly misleading, however; some of the reasons for

delay I mentioned are practical political reasons ot the sort I

sald Hercules would not attend to, though real justices

might have to, but others do bear on the question of princi-

ple, the question of what the Constitution requires as a mat-

ter of law. Any plausible interpretation of the rights people

have under the Constitution must be complex enough to

speak to remedy as well as substance. So Hercules’ decision

about remedy is also a decision of law, a decision about the

secondary rights people have to the method and manner of

enforcing their primary substantive rights.'” Hercules must

decide, as a general threshold question, whether the best in-

terpretation of the remedial practices of courts 1n general

and the Supreme Court in particular insists that people’s

rights to remedy be sensitive to consequence. He will decide

that 1t does: the point of constitutional adjudication is not

merely to name rights but to secure them, and to do so in the

interests of those whose rights they are.

So he must then ask which procedural decision will best

protect black schoolchildren seeking an integrated educa-

tion, and he may well discover that requiring overnight in-

tegration will not. But though his decision must be sensitive

to consequence, 1t must also discriminate among conse-

quences, and he will accordingly treat the technical and me-

chanical problems of integration diflerently from the

problem of a threatened backlash, for deference to the latter

would reward acts and attitudes that the Constitution out-

laws and deplores. Hercules’ decision, then, even about rem-

edy, 1s not simply or directly consequentialist the way a flat

decision of policy would be. He aims to develop an overall

theory of enforcement that fits and justifies the power the
