INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

R

interpretation, and we might feel compelled, if we are at-

tracted to the idea that all genuine interpretation is pur-

posive, to say that scientific interpretation 1s not really

interpretation at all. The phrase “scientific interpretation,”

we might say, is only a metaphor, the metaphor of data

“speaking to” the scientist in the way one person speaks to

another; it pictures the scientist as straining to understand

what the data try to tell him. We can dissolve the metaphor

and speak accurately, we might well think, only by elim-

inating the idea of purpose from our final description of the

scientific process.

Is creative interpretation also, then, only a metaphorical

case of interpretation? We might say (to use the same meta-

phor) that when we speak of interpreting poems or social

practices we are imagining that these speak to us, that they

mean to tell us something just the way a person might. But

we cannot then dissolve that metaphor, as we can in the sci-

entific case, by explaining that we really have in mind an or-

dinary causal explanation, and that the metaphor of

purpose and meaning is only decorative. For the interpreta-

tion of social practices and works of art is essentially con-

cerned with purposes rather than mere causes. The citizens

of courtesy do not aim to find, when they interpret their

practice, the various economic or psychological or physiolog-

ical determinants of their convergent behavior. Nor does a

critic aim at a physiological account of how a poem was

written. So we must find some way to replace the metaphor

of practices and pictures speaking in their own voices that

recognizes the fundamental place of purpose in creative in-

terpretation.

One solution is very popular. It dissolves the metaphor of

poems and pictures speaking to us by insisting that creative

interpretation is only a special case of conversational inter-

pretation. We listen, not to the works of art themselves as the

metaphor suggests, but to their actual, human. authors.

Creative Interpretation aims to decipher the authors’ pur-

poses or intentions in writing a particular novel or main-
