178

INTEGRITY

constraints on democratic power to prevent the majority

from limiting freedom of speech or other important liber-

ties?”> These difficult questions arise because fairness and jus-

tice sometimes conflict. If we believe that integrity is a third

and independent ideal, at least when people disagree about

one of the first two, then we may well think that fairness or

justice must sometimes be sacrificed to integrity.

Internal Compromises

I shall try to show that our political practices accept integ-

rity as a distinct virtue, and I begin with what I hope will

strike you as a puzzle. Here are my background assumptions.

We all believe in political fairness: we accept that each per-

son or group in the community should have a roughly equal

share of control over the decisions made by Parliament or

Congress or the state legislature. We know that different

people hold different views about moral issues that they all

treat as of great importance. It would seem to follow from

our convictions about fairness that legislation on these moral

issues should be a matter not just of enforcing the will of the

numerical majority, as if its view were unanimous, but of

trades and compromises so that each body of opinion is rep-

resented, to a degree that matches its numbers, in the final

result. We could achieve this compromise in a Solomonic

way. Do the people of North Dakota disagree whether justice

requires compensation for product defects that manufactur-

ers could not reasonably have prevented? Then why should

their legislature not impose this “strict” liability on manu-

facturers of automobiles but not on manufacturers of wash-

ing machines? Do the people of Alabama disagree about the

morality of racial discrimination? Why should their legisla-

ture not forbid racial discrimination on buses but permit it

in restaurants? Do the British divide on the morality of abor-

tion? Why should Parliament not make abortion criminal

for pregnant women who were born in even years but not for

those born 1in odd ones? This Solomonic model treats a com-
