368

THE CONSTITUTION

not always matter more than what the details of that settle-

ment are. It is plainly very important to the working of a fed-

eral system of government that the allocation of power

between national and local jurisdictions be as precise and

stable as possible. But it is also important which political

unit is assigned a particular power or responsibility: power

to regulate a particular form of commerce, for example, or

responsibility to finance public education or direct educa-

tional policy. When law as integrity interprets constitutional

practice to decide how the Constitution distributes some

particular responsibility among jurisdictions, it takes stabil-

ity into account, but it also notices that one decision might

better comport with the overall scheme of federalism the

practice constructs.

There 1s a third class of constitutional i1ssues whose bal-

ance 1s different still. Some clauses, on any eligible interpre-

tation, recognize individual rights against the state and

nation: to freedom of speech, to due process in criminal pro-

cedures, to treatment as an equal in the disposition of public

resources, including education. Stability in the interpreta-

tion of each of these rights taken one by one 1s of some prac-

tical importance. But since these are matters of principle,

substance is more important than that kind of stability. The

crucial stability in any case is that of integrity: the system of

rights must be interpreted, so far as possible, as expressing a

coherent vision of justice. This could not be achieved by the

weak form of historicism that ties judges to the concrete

opinions of the historical statesmen who created each right,

so far as these concrete opinions can be discovered, but asks

them to use some other method of interpretation when the

framers had no opinion or their opinion is lost to history.

That is a formula certain to produce incoherence in the con-

stitutional scheme it generates, because framers at different

periods had different concrete views about what justice re-

quires, and because judges using nonhistorical methods

when these views cannot be retrieved will have concrete

opinions different from those of any framer. Strong histori-
