268

INTEGRITY IN LAW

—

ine him thinking that it is wholly inappropriate to ask

whether people have a duty to compensate for their negli-

gence; 1t is the wrong kind of question, like asking which

hand courtesy insists be used to remove one’s hat. Even this

would not justify skepticism about what decision Hercules

should make, however. If morality has nothing to do with

negligence, then the state can have no warrant for interven-

ing to coerce compensation, and once again this argues in

favor of interpretation (6) as at least preferable to (5), be-

cause the former allows the state to trespass somewhat less

often where 1t has no business.

So our skeptical critic 1s unlikely to persuade us through

this kind of argument. He might argue for internal skepti-

cism in a different way, however, by trying to show that legal

practice 1s too deeply contradictory to yield to any coher-

ent interpretation at all. Hercules knows that the law is far

from perfectly consistent in principle overall. He knows that

legislative supremacy gives force to some statutes that are

inconsistent in principle with others, and that the compart-

mentalization of the common law, together with local prior-

ity, allows inconsistency even there. But he assumes that

these contradictions are not so pervasive and intractable

within departments of law that his task 1s impossible. He as-

sumes, that is, that some set of reasonably plausible princi-

ples can be found, for each general department of law he

must enforce, that fit it well enough to count as an eligible

interpretation of it. This i1s the assumption the critic now

challenges. He 1nsists that the law of accidents, for example,

1s so shot through with contradiction that no interpretation

can fit more than an arbitrary and limited part of it.

This 1s a much stronger skeptical challenge because it at-

tacks the feasibility of integrity at its root. It forces us to take

up an aspect of the requirement of fit that I postponed, the

ptvotal distinction between competition and contradiction

in principle. Suppose Hercules finds, as in the worst-case

variation just mentioned, that both interpretation (5) and

interpretation (6) fit a substantial part of the relevant prece-
