420

NOTES TO PAGE 52

philosopher who was especially influential in shaping the debate

about objectivity in the social sciences used the word verstehen spe-

cifically to describe the kind of understanding we achieve in com-

ing to know what someone else means by what he says (this is a

sense of comprehension, we might say, in which understanding

someone involves coming to an understanding with him) rather

than to describe all possible ways or modes of understanding his

behavior or its mental life. (See Meaning in History: Dilthey’s Thought

on History and Society |[H. P. Rickman trans. and ed.; London,

1961].) He raised the question whether and how this kind of un-

derstanding is possible over cultural gaps; he found the key to this

problem in ‘“historical” consciousness: the state of mind achieved

by rare and dedicated interpreters through reflection on the gen-

eral structure and categories of their own lives at so high a level of

abstraction that they can be supposed, at least as a methodologi-

cal hypothesis, to hold across time. The contemporary masters of

the continuing debate, like Gadamer and Habermas, take differ-

ent directions. Gadamer thinks Dilthey’s solution supposes the

Hegelian apparatus Dilthey was anxious to exorcise. (See H. G.

Gadamer, Truth and Method particularly 192-214 [Eng. trans.,

2nd ed., London, 1979].) He believes the Archimedian histori-

cal consciousness Dilthey supposed possible, free from what

Gadamer calls, in his special sense of the word, prejudices, is im-

possible, that the most we can hope to achieve 1s an “effective

historical consciousness” that aims not to look at history from

no point of view but to understand how our own viewpoint is in-

fluenced by the world we wish to interpret. Habermas criticizes

Gadamer, in turn, for the latter’s too-passive view that the di-

rection of communication is onc¢ way, that the interpreter must

strive to learn from and apply what he interprets on the assump-

tion that he 1s subordinate to its author. Habcermas makes the cru-

cial observation (which points in the direction of constructive

rather than conversational interpretation) that interpretation

supposes that the author could lcarn from the interpreter. (See

Jurgen Habermas,

I

The Theory of Communicative Action [T

McCarthy trans., Boston, 1984].) The long debate continues, how-

ever, mainly dominated by the assumption I describe in the text,

that the only alternative to cause-and-effect understanding of so-

cial facts 1s conversational understanding on the model of verstehen.
