WHAT IS LAW?

o1s

speak 1n a way that contradicts 1t. Many lawyers in both

Britain and the United States believe that the progressive

income tax 1s unjust, for example, but none of them doubts

that the law of these countries does impose tax at progressive

rates. Some less extreme ‘“natural law” theories claim only

that morality is sometimes relevant to the truth of proposi-

tions of law. They suggest, for instance, that when a statute

is open to different interpretations, as in Elmer’s case, or

when precedents are indecisive, as in Mrs. McLoughlin’s

case, whichever interpretation is morally superior is the more

accurate statement of the law. But even this weaker version

of natural law is unpersuasive if we take 1t to be a semantic

theory about how all lawyers use the word “law”; Judge

Gray seems to have agreed with Judge Earl that the law

would be better if it denied Elmer his inheritance, but he did

not agree that the law therefore did deny it to him.

Students are taught that the second rival to positivism is

the school of legal realism. Realist theories were developed

early in this century, mainly in American law schools,

though the movement had branches elsewhere. If we treat

them as semantic theories, they argue that the linguistic

rules lawyers follow make propositions of law instrumental

and predictive. The best version suggests that the exact

meaning of a proposition of law—the conditions under

which lawyers will take the proposition to be true—depends

on context. If a lawyer advises a client that the law permits

murderers to inherit, for example, he must be understood as

predicting that this i1s what judges will decide when the

matter next comes to court. If a judge says this in the course

of his opinion, he is making a different sort of predictive hy-

pothesis, about the general course or “path” the law i1s most

likely to take in the general area of his decision.”>” Some real-

ists expressed these ideas in dramatically skeptical language.

They said there is no such thing as law, or that law 1s only a

matter of what the judge had for breakfast. They meant that

there can be no such thing as law apart from predictions of

these different sorts. But even understood 1n this way, real-
