CONVENTIONALISM

X

or otherwise offend any widely held view about fairness or ef-

ficiency in legislation, then the propositions contained in

that statute, understood in that way, are part of the commu-

nity’s law.

That seems a comically weak claim. But Elmer’s case and

the snail darter case show that we could not report a much

more robust explicit extension for the convention of legisla-

tion. We could not claim, as part of the explicit extension,

that if the words of a statute are clear in themselves the law

contains that clear meaning, for example. That proposition

has much support among lawyers, and even more among

laymen, but our sample cases show that 1t does not com-

mand anything like universal assent among judges in the

United States. Nor does the contrary proposition, that the

law does not contain the clear meaning if the legislators did

not intend 1t and would have rejected 1t if it had been

brought to their attention.

If conventionalism is strict conventionalism, then, its posi-

tive claim oflers no help to judges faced with problematical

lawsuits. For strict conventionalism gives only the negative

advice that judges must not pretend to be deciding such

cases on legal grounds. This explains the attraction soft con-

ventionalism has had for a recent generation of legal philoso-

phers.* The positive part of soft conventionalism instructs

judges to decide according to their own interpretation of the

concrete requirements of legislation and precedent, even

though this may be controversial, and this advice 1s not irrel-

evant in hard cases. It would be easy to demonstrate, more-

over, that all our judges, including those who decided our

sample cases, have really been following that advice all

along.

All those judges agreed on the abstract propositions that

statutes make law and that precedent decisions must be al-

lowed some influence over later decisions. They disagreed

about the implicit extension of these supposed legal conven-

tions. The majority in the snail darter case thought that the

best interpretation of the convention about statutes required
