Re)e)

PRAGMATISM AND PERSONIFICATION

cases alike.” I give it a grander title: it is the virtue of political

integrity. I choose that name to show its connection to a

parallel ideal of personal morality. We want our neighbors

to behave, in their day-to-day dealings with us, in the way

we think right. But we know that people disagree to some

extent about the right principles of behavior, so we distin-

guish that requirement from the different (and weaker) re-

quirement that they act in important matters with integrity,

that is, according to convictions that inform and shape their

lives as a whole, rather than capriciously or whimsically.

The practical importance of this latter requirement among

people who know they disagree about justice 1s evident. In-

tegrity becomes a political ideal when we make the same de-

mand of the state or community taken to be a moral agent,

when we Insist that the state act on a single, coherent set of

principles even when its citizens are divided about what the

right principles of justice and fairness really are. We assume,

in both the individual and the political cases, that we can

recognize other people’s acts as expressing a conception of

fairness or justice or decency even when we do not endorse

that conception ourselves. This ability 1s an important part

of our more general ability to treat others with respect, and

it is therefore a prerequisite of civilization.

I began this discussion of ordinary politics, and of its de-

partments of political virtue, in the shadow of the pragma-

tist’s challenge to the i1dea of legal rights. If we accept

integrity as a distinct political virtue beside justice and fair-

ness, then we have a general, nonstrategic argument for

recognizing such rights. The integrity of a community’s con-

ception of fairness requires that the political principles nec-

essary to justify the legislature’s assumed authority be given

full effect in deciding what a statute it has enacted means.

The integrity of a community’s conception of justice de-

mands that the moral principles necessary to justify the sub-

stance of 1ts legislature’s decisions be recognized in the rest of

the law. The integrity of its conception of procedural due

process insists that trial procedures that are counted as strik-
