10

WHAT IS LAW?

once we accept the plain-fact view of law and its consequent

claim that theoretical disagreement is only disguised politics.

For the more we learn about law, the more we grow con-

vinced that nothing important about it 1s wholly uncontro-

versial.

The plain-fact view is not, I must add, accepted by every-

one. It is very popular among laymen and academic writers

whose specialty is the philosophy of law. But it is rejected in

the accounts thoughtful working lawyers and judges give of

their work. They may endorse the plain-fact picture as a

piece of formal jurisprudence when asked in properly grave

tones what law 1s. But in less guarded moments they tell a

different and more romantic story. They say that law is

instinct rather than explicit in doctrine, that it can be i1den-

tified only by special techniques best described impressionis-

tically, even mysteriously. They say that judging is an art

not a science, that the good judge blends analogy, craft, po-

litical wisdom, and a sense of his role into an intuitive deci-

sion, that he “sees” law better than he can explain 1t, so his

written opinion, however carefully reasoned, never captures

his full insight.’

Very often they add what they believe i1s a modest dis-

claimer. They say there are no right answers but only differ-

ent answers to hard questions of law, that insight 1s finally

subjective, that 1t 1s only what seems right, for better or

worse, to the particular judge on the day. But this modesty

in fact contradicts what they say first, for when judges finally

decide one way or another they think their arguments better

than, not merely different from, arguments the other way;

though they may think this with humility, wishing their

confidence were greater or their time for decision longer, this

is nevertheless their belief. In that and other ways the ro-

mantic “‘craft” view is unsatisfactory; it is too unstructured,

too content with the mysteries it savors, to count as any de-

veloped theory of what legal argument 1s about. We need to

throw discipline over the idea of law as craft, to see how the
