118

THE CONSTITUTION

indeterminate sources. It will also be difficult to decide, case

by case, which legislation would have been justified even if

tainted preferences had not been counted in the calculation.

It might be impossible to decide, for example, how far some

particular parent’s wish that his children be educated with

other children from a similar background expresses a racially

neutral view that education is always more effective in these

circumstances and how far it reflects racial prejudice.

So judges who accepted the banned sources theory would

have to construct a practical elaboration based on judg-

ments about the kinds of preferences that often or typically

have been generated through prejudice, and about the kinds

of political decisions that in normal circumstances could not

be justified were such preferences not counted as part of the

justification. This practical elaboration would designate a

set of “‘suspect” classifications much like those of the first

theory, classifications that usually cause disadvantage to

groups, like blacks or Jews or women or homosexuals, that

have historically been the targets of prejudice; it would raise

a presumption that any political decision that causes special

disadvantage to these groups violates the constitutional right

against discrimination. But the case necessary to rebut that

presumption, according to the practical elaboration of the

third theory, would be very different from the case necessary

to rebut the suspicion of violation under the first theory. Ac-

cording to the first, the suspicion can be put to rest by show-

ing that a calculation neutral among all preferences would

justify the distinction of race. Under the third, this would

not suffice: it would be necessary either to show that the

classification was justified by popular preferences unstained

by prejudice, or to provide some different form of justifica-

tion that did not rely on preferences at all. The third theory,

even when practically elaborated in this way, 1s also differ-

ent from the second theory, of banned categories. The two

come apart in confronting legislation whose purpose and ef-

fect is to benefit people who have historically been the vic-

tims of prejudice, not to harm them. The banned sources
