E

JURISPRUDENCE REVISITED

claim, theories that challenge rather than elaborate the con-

nection 1t assumes between law and the justification of coer-

cion. But not as many as there might seem to be at first

3

24 F:) ool

Conceptions of law refine the initial, uncontroversial in-

terpretation I just suggested provides our concept of law.

Each conception furnishes connected answers to three ques-

tions posed by the concept. First, 1s the supposed link be-

tween law and coercion justified at all? Is there any point to

requiring public force to be used only in ways conforming to

rights and responsibilities that “flow from” past political de-

cisions? Second, if there is such a point, what is 1t? Third,

what reading of “flow from”—what notion of consistency

with past decisions—best serves 1t? The answer a conception

gives to this third question determines the concrete legal

rights and responsibilities it recognizes.

In the next several chapters we shall study three rival con-

ceptions of law, three abstract interpretations of our legal

practice that I have deliberately constructed on this model

as answers to this set of questions. These conceptions are

novel in one way: they are not meant precisely to match the

“schools” of jurisprudence I described in Chapter 1, and

perhaps no legal philosopher would defend either of the first

two exactly as I describe it. But each captures themes and

ideas prominent in that literature, now organized as inter-

pretive rather than semantic claims, and the argument

among them 1s therefore more illuminating than the stale

battles of the texts. I shall call these three conceptions “con-

ventionalism,” “legal pragmatism,” and “law as integrity.” |

shall argue that the first of these, though it seems initially to

reflect the ordinary citizen’s understanding of law, is the

weakest; that the second 1s more powerful and can be dc-

feated only when our theater of argument expands to in-

clude political philosophy; and that the third is, all things

considered, the best interpretation of what lawyers, law

teachers, and judges actually do and much of what they say.

Conventionalism gives an affirmative answer to the first
