JURISPRUDENCE REVISITED

109

plateau of rough consensus that if law exists it provides a

justification for the use of collective power against individual

citizens or groups. General conceptions of law, like the three

I named, begin in some broad thesis about whether and why

past political decisions do provide such a justification, and

this thesis then provides a unifying structure for the concep-

tion as a whole. I must now consider an apparently powerful

objection. Our lawyers and citizens recognize a difference

between the question what the law 1s and the question

whether judges or any other official or citizen should enforce

or obey the law. They regard these as separate questions, not

only when they have in mind foreign, wicked legal systems

in the various ways we just noticed, but even in considering

how citizens and officials 1n our own communities should

behave. T'he opinion that our judges should sometimes ig-

nore the law and try to replace it with better law is far from a

stranger to law school classrooms and even political debates.

It is not regarded as absurd 1n the special way 1t would be 1f

people thought the connection between law and coercion so

uncontroversial as to be conceptual 1n our present sense.

This might seem to provide an overwhelming argument for

positivist semantic theories of law in spite of the trouble I

have been trying to make for them. However misleading

their theories may be in other respects, Austin and Hart at

least noticed and tried to explain why people do not always

treat the answer to a legal question as automatically an an-

swer to the political question about what judges should do.

They said that propositions of law are in essence factual and

therefore make, in themselves, no claim at all about what

any official or citizen should actually do. If we reject these

theories because we treat jurisprudence as interpretation

rather than linguistic analysis, we must offer an alternative

explanation of this distinction, and my description of the

concept of law, which ties law so closely to politics, might

SECM a poor start.

This objection calls for an important clarification. Our

concept of law is furnished, on my suggestion, by rough
