Xe!

WHAT IS LAW?

stances be sufficient to distinguish a line of precedents and so

justify a judge’s refusal to extend the principle of those cases

to a larger area of liability. But they did not think these pol-

icy reasons were of sufficient plausibility or merit in Mrs.

McLoughlin’s case. They did not believe that the risk of a

“flood” of litigation was sufficiently grave, and they said the

courts should be able to distinguish genuine from fraudulent

claims even among those whose putative injury was suffered

several hours after the accident. They did not undertake to

say when good policy arguments might be available to limit

recovery for emotional injury; they left it an open ques-

tion, for example, whether Mrs. McLoughlin’s sister in Aus-

tralia (if she had one) could recover for the shock she might

have in reading about the accident weeks or months later in

a letter.

Two of their lordships took a very different view of the

law. They said it would be wrong for courts to deny recovery

to an otherwise meritorious plaintiff for the kinds of reasons

the Court of Appeal had mentioned and which the other

law lords had said might be sufficient in some circumstances.

The precedents should be regarded as distinguishable, they

said, only if the moral principles assumed in the earlier cases

for some reason did not apply to the plaintiftf in the same

way. And once it is conceded that the damage to a mother in

the hospital hours after an accident is reasonably foreseeable

to a careless driver, then no difference in moral principle can

be found between the two cases. Congestion in the courts or

a rise in the price of automobile liability insurance, they

sald, however inconvenient these might be to the community

as a whole, cannot justify refusing to enforce individual

rights and duties that have been recognized and enforced

before. They said these were the wrong sorts of arguments to

make to judges as arguments of law, however cogent they

might be if addressed to legislators as arguments for a

change in the law. (Lord Scarman’s opinion was particularly

clear and strong on this point.) The argument among their
