§)

INTEGRITY

1. Justice as fairness (though not in this crude, extreme form) is

the subject of Rawls’s classic A Theory of Justice (Cambridge, Mass.,

1971). See pages 197-98 and 221-24. See also his “Kantian Con-

structivism in Moral Theory,” 77 Journal of Philosophy 515 (1980).

2. Utilitarian theories of democracy take this extreme position.

See James Mill, “Essay on Government,” in J. Lively and J. Rees,

Utilitarian Logic and Politics (London, 1978).

3. Later in this chapter and in Chapter 10 I consider further the

connection between majority will and fairness. If the nerve of po-

litical fairness is equality of political influence, some form of pro-

portional voting provides a fairer electoral structure than simple

majority vote, though as I suggest in the text, proportional voting

1s often not workable. In the next several pages of the text I discuss

a special method for sccuring the kind of proportional influence

fairness recommends within the normal majoritarian electoral

process, a method I call the checkerboard solution. I argue that

since fairness supports checkerboard solutions, we must find some

other argument for rejecting them if we think them wrong.

4- See Alexander M. Bickel, The Supreme Court and the Idea of

Progress 109-17, 151-73 (New Haven and London, 1978).

5. See Taking Rights Serwously passim, but particularly chaps. 5

and 7.

0. “Checkerboard’ is sometimes used to describe statutes that

make distinctions that are not arbitrary in this way, but rather

claim a justification of policy best served by the discriminations in

question. I mean to use the word only to describe statutes that

display incoherence in principle and that can be justified, if at all,

only on grounds of a fair allocation of political power between dif-

ferent moral parties.

7. This i1s in one way too simple a description of the model we

follow. We know that principles we accept independently some-

times conflict in the sense that we cannot satisfy both on some par-

ticular occasion. We might believe, for example, that people

should be free to do what they wish with their own property and

also that people should begin life on equal terms. Then the ques-

tion arises whether rich people should be permitted to leave their

wealth to their children, and we might believe that our two prin-
