NOTES TO PAGE 275

S E N

present interest is in the diagnosis of contradiction: the law

of accidents is said to be not only complex, because two different

principles are at work, but contradictory because these cannot

stand together, even as principles. But that claim rests on a crude

mistake in logic: it argues in the wrong direction. It is perhaps true

that someone who held the bizarre and barely comprehensible

view that people are wholly “independent and self-sufhcient”

would be drawn to the foreseeability test of liability. (Liberals are

meant to hold that bizarre view, and perhaps some liberal could

be found who does. But it is hardly the view of Mill or Rawls or

any of the other philosophers influential in the liberal tradition.)

It is not necessarily true, for he might think that hemophiliacs

need their “independent” plans protected as well, and that “ro-

bustly” self-sufficient tortfeasors should buy insurance against

strict hiability and take the consequences if they do not. In any

case, however, that i1s not the issue, which i1s rather whether only

someonce who held that odd view could be attracted to that test.

Why should a more sensible person who realizes that “the world is

made up of interdependent and cooperating persons,” who thrills

to the appeals of “solidarity and altruism,” not feel sympathy for

the carcless driver who has the bad luck to nick a hemophiliac as

well as for the hemophiliac himself?

So the confident assignment of the two principles to two contra-

dictory “‘visions” ol society 1s procrustean and groundless. These

principles are inevitable aspects of any decent response to the

world’s complexity. They differ only in their distribution of the

risk of loss between two actors, one of whom must lose because of

the acts or situation of the other, and it is implausible to suppose

that someone who makes that choice differently in diftferent kinds

of circumstances, fixing the loss on the actor in some and on the

victim in another, is for that reason morally schizophrenic. The

problem for Hercules, faced with the set of decisions this critic de-

scribes, 1s in fact no more daunting than the one he faced in the

text a moment ago, and 1t might well be more pedestrian. He con-

structs two principles: that people should not be held responsible

for causing injury they could not reasonably foresee and that peo-

ple should not be put at disadvantage, in the level of protection

the law gives them, in virtue of physical disabilities beyond their

control. He has no difhculty in recognizing both at work in the
