JURISPRUDENCE REVISITED

R

community unless there is enough initial agreement about

what practices are legal practices so that lawyers argue

about the best interpretation of roughly the same data. That

1s a practical requirement of any interpretive enterprise: it

would be pointless for two critics to argue over the best in-

terpretation of a poem if one has in mind the text of “Sailing

to Byzantium” and the other the text of “Mathilda Who

Told Lies.” I do not mean that all lawyers everywhere and

always must agree on exactly which practices should count

as practices of law, but only that the lawyers of any culture

where the interpretive attitude succeeds must largely agree

at any one time. We all enter the history of an interpretive

practice at a particular point; the necessary preinterpretive

agreement is in that way contingent and local.

In fact we have no difficulty identifying collectively the

practices that count as legal practices in our own culture. We

have legislatures and courts and administrative agencies and

bodies, and the decisions these institutions make are re-

ported in a canonical way. In the United States we have the

Constitution as well. Each lawyer has joined the practice of

law with that furniture in place and with a shared under-

standing that these institutions together form our legal sys-

tem. It would be a mistake—another lingering infection

from the semantic sting—to think that we 1dentify these in-

stitutions through some shared and intellectually satisfying

definition of what a legal system necessarily is and what in-

stitutions necessarily make it up.' Our culture presents us

with legal institutions and with the 1dea that they form a

system. The question which features they have, in virtue of

which they combine as a distinctly legal system, 1s part of the

interpretive problem. It is part of the controversial and un-

certain process of assigning meaning to what we find, not a

given of the preinterpretive structure.

We also have legal paradigms, proposition of law like the

traffic code that we take to be true if any are; an interpreta-

tion that denies these will be for that reason deeply suspect.

These paradigms give shape and profit to interpretive de-
