INTERPRETIVE CONCEPTS

50

philosophers. But if law is an interpretive concept, any juris-

prudence worth having must be built on some view of what

interpretation is, and the analysis of interpretation I con-

struct and defend in this chapter 1s the foundation of the rest

of the book. The detour 1s essential.

Interpreting a social practice i1s only one form or occasion

of interpretation. People interpret in many different con-

texts, and we should begin by seeking some sense of how

these contexts differ. The most familiar occasion of interpre-

tation—so familiar that we hardly recognize it as such—is

conversation. We interpret the sounds or marks another per-

son makes in order to decide what he has said. So-called sci-

entific interprctation 1s another context: we say that a

scientist first collects data and then interprets them. Artistic

interpretation 1s yet another: critics interpret poems and

plays and paintings in order to defend some view of their

meaning or theme or point. The form of interpretation we

are studying—the interpretation of a social practice—is like

artistic interpretation in this way: both aim to interpret

something created by people as an entity distinct from them,

rather than what people say, as in conversational interpreta-

tion, or events not created by people, as in scientific inter-

pretation. I shall capitalize on that similarity between artis-

tic interpretation and the interpretation of social practice; I

shallcall them both formsof“‘creative” interpretation to distin-

guish them from conversational and scientific interpretation.

Conversational interpretation 1s purposive rather than

causal in some more mechanical way. It does not aim to ex-

plain the sounds someone makes the way a biologist explains

a frog’s croak. It assigns meaning in the light of the motives

and purposes and concerns 1t supposes the speaker to have,

and it reports its conclusions as statements about his “inten-

tion’’ in saying what he did. May we say that all forms of in-

terpretation aim at purposive explanation in that way, and

that this aim distinguishes interpretation, as a type of ex-

planation, from causal explanation more generally? That

description does not seem, at first blush, to fit scientific
