INTEGRITY

N

“natural” interpretation I described of the crucial idea of

benefit. Suppose we understand the argument in a different

way: it assumes not that each citizen’s welfare, judged in

some politically neutral way, has been improved by a partic-

ular social or political organization, but that each has re-

ceived the benefits of that organization. That 1s, that he has

actually received what i1s due him according to the standards

of justice and fairness on which it is constructed. The princi-

ple of fair play, understood that way, states at least a condi-

tion necessary to legitimacy. If a community does not aim to

treat someone as an equal, even according to 1ts own lights,

then its claim to his political obligation is fatally compro-

mised. But it remains unclear how the negative fact that so-

ciety has not discriminated against someone 1n this way,

according to its own standards, could supply any positive

reason why he should accept its laws as obligations. Indeed,

the first objection I described becomes more powerful yet if

we make this response to the second. For now the argument

from fair play must be understood as claiming, not that

someone incurs an obligation when his welfare 1s improved

in a way he did not seek, but that he incurs an obligation by

being treated in a way that might not even improve his wel-

fare over any appropriate benchmark. For there 1s nothing in

the fact that some individual has been treated fairly by his

community according to its own standards that guarantees

him any further, more material advantage.

OBLIGATIONS OF COMMUNITY

Crrcumstances and Conditions

Is it true that no one can be morally affected by being given

what he does not ask for or choose to have? We will think so

if we consider only cases of benefits thrust upon us by strang-

ers like philosophers in sound trucks. Our convictions are

quite different, however, when we have in mind obligations

that are often called obligations of role but that I shall call,
