INTEGRITY IN LAW

234

yourself which interpretation makes the work of art better on

the whole. You may never have reflected on that sort of

question before—perhaps the tradition of criticism in which

you have been trained takes it for granted that one or the

other of these dimensions is the more important—but that is

no reason why you may not do so now. Once you make up

your mind you will believe that the correct interpretation of

Scrooge’s character 1s the interpretation that makes the

novel better on the whole, so judged.

This contrived example 1s complex enough to provoke the

following apparently important question. Is your judgment

about the best way to interpret and continue the sections

you have been given of A Christmas Carol a free or a con-

strained judgment? Are you free to give effect to your own

assumptions and attitudes about what novels should be like?

Or are you bound to ignore these because you are enslaved

by a text you cannot alter? The answer 1s plain enough: nei-

ther of these two crude descriptions—of total creative free-

dom or mechanical textual constraint—captures vyour

situation, because each must in some way be qualified by the

other. You will sense creative freedom when you compare

your task with some relatively more mechanical one, like di-

rect translation of a text into a foreign language. But you

will sense constraint when you compare it with some rela-

tively less guided one, like beginning a new novel of your

(0M4 40

It is important not only to notice this contrast between

elements of artistic freedom and textual constraint but also

not to misunderstand 1ts character. It 1s not a contrast be-

tween those aspects of interpretation that are dependent on

and those that are independent of the interpreter’s aesthetic

convictions. And it i1s not a contrast between those aspects

that may be and those that cannot be controversial. For the

constraints that you sense as limits to your freedom to read 4

Christmas Carol so as to make Scrooge irredeemably evil are as

much matters of judgment and conviction, about which dif-

ferent chain novelists might disagree, as the convictions and
