INTEGRITY IN LAW

L%

ception of law is really two conceptions: law as integrity

supplemented, when integrity gives out, by some version of

natural law theory? This is not a very important objection,; 1t

only suggests a different way of reporting the conclusions 1t

no longer challenges. Nevertheless the observation that

prompts it is too crude. For it is a mistake to think that the

idea of integrity is irrelevant to Hercules’ decision once that

decision is no longer a matter of his convictions about fit but

draws on his sense of fairness or justice as well.

The spirit of integrity, which we located in fraternity,

would be outraged if Hercules were to make his decision in

any way other than by choosing the interpretation that he

believes best from the standpoint of political morality as a

whole. We accept integrity as a political ideal because we

want to treat our political community as one of principle,

and the citizens of a community of principle aim not simply

at common principles, as if uniformity were all they wanted,

but the best common principles politics can find. Integrity is

distinct from justice and fairness, but it is bound to them 1n

that way: integrity makes no sense except among people who

want fairness and justice as well. So Hercules’ final choice of

the interpretation he believes sounder on the whole—{fairer

and more just in the right relation—flows from his initial

commitment to integrity. He makes that choice at the mo-

ment and in the way integrity both permits and requires,

and it is therefore deeply misleading to say that he has

abandoned the 1deal at just that point.

Hercules Is Arrogant and Anyway a Myth

I shall deal much more briefly with two less important critics

who nevertheless must be heard. I have been describing

Hercules’ methods in what some will call a subjective way,

by describing the questions he must answer and judgments

he must make for himself. Other judges would answer these

differently, and you might agree with one of them rather

than Hercules. We shall consider in a moment whether any
