INTEGRITY

209

ring to the responsibilities claimed by my racial or religious

group.

We must not forget, in puzzling about these various con-

flicts, that associative responsibilities are subject to interpre-

tation, and that justice will play its normal interpretive role

in deciding for any person what his associative responsibil-

ities, properly understood, really are. If the bare facts of so-

cial practice are indecisive, my belief that it is unjust for

parents to exercise absolute dominion over their children

will influence my convictions about whether the institution

of family really has that feature, just as a citizen’s beliefs

about the justice of social rank influences his beliefs about

courtesy in the imaginary community of Chapter 2. Even if

the practice of dominion is settled and unquestioned, the in-

terpretive attitude may isolate it as a mistake because it is

condemned by principles necessary to justify the rest of the

institution. There is no guarantee, however, that the inter-

pretive attitude will always justify reading some apparently

unjust feature of an associative institution out of it. We may

have to concede that unjust dominion lies at the heart of

some culture’s practices of family, or that indefensible dis-

crimination is at the heart of its practices of racial or reli-

gious cohesion. Then we will be aware of another possibility

we have also noticed before, in other contexts. The best in-

terpretation may be a deeply skeptical one: that no compe-

institution can fail to show

tent account of the

AR

thoroughly and pervasively unjust, and that it should there-

fore be abandoned. Someone who reaches that conclusion

will deny that the practice can impose genuine obligations at

all. He thinks the obligations it purports to 1mpose are

wholly canceled by competing moral principle.

So our account of associative obligation now has the fol-

lowing rather complex structure. It combines matters of so-

cial practice and matters of critical interpretation in the

following way. The question of communal obligation does

not arise except for groups defined by practice as carrying

such obligations: associative communities must be bare com-
