STATUTES

332

cies should be halted, and this project threatens a species,

Smith believes that this project should be halted. But state-

ments of convictions, as made by people whose convictions

they are, are transparent to substitution, and so it is not

wrong or misleading, but on the contrary exactly right, to

say that Smith “is committed” to halting the dam, or that it

b

“follows

from her convictions that the dam must be

stopped.

So we easily dismiss the objection I called absurd because

it rests on a mistake about the logic of statements of convic-

tion. We must, however, guard against the same objection,

resting on the same mistake, in a different setting where it

might initially seem more plausible. Suppose Smith has a

more moderate set of convictions. She thinks it important

that species be preserved, but not overwhelmingly impor-

tant, and that therefore the secretary should not have the

power to protect unimportant species when this would

plainly be “unreasonable,” given the effect on public finance

and other public goals. She also thinks the TVA project

should be halted to save the snail darter. She has not, we as-

sume, made any “factual” mistake, but her judgment that it

would not be unreasonable to halt the dam 1n these circum-

stances may be inconsistent with other opinions Hermes can

sensibly attribute to her. She may have voted on other occa-

sions 1n ways that assume a very different judgment about

the relative importance of conservation and public expendi-

ture. She may have voted against much less expensive con-

servation measures and for cuts 1n 1mportant public

expenditures that would save much less money than would

be wasted by halting the dam. Hermes will then think that

her specific opinion about the snail darter is inconsistent

with her convictions more generally, that once again she has

made a mistake in applying these general convictions to this

particular case, though her mistake i1s now of a different

character.

Once again the objection might be made that her opinions

are not in conflict because although she believes projects
