[4

WHAT IS LAW?

other. The participant’s point of view envelops the histo-

rian’s when some claim of law depends on a matter of histor-

ical fact: when the question whether segregation is illegal, for

example, turns on the motives either of the statesmen who

wrote the Constitution or of those who segregated the

schools.® The historian’s perspective includes the partici-

pant’s more pervasively, because the historian cannot un-

derstand law as an argumentative social practice, even

enough to reject it as deceptive, until he has a participant’s

understanding, until he has his own sense of what counts as a

good or bad argument within that practice. We need a social

theory of law, but it must be jurisprudential just for that

reason. Theories that ignore the structure of legal argument

for supposedly larger questions of history and society are

therefore perverse. They 1gnore questions about the internal

character of legal argument, so their explanations are im-

poverished and defective, like innumerate histories of mathe-

matics, whether they are written in the language of Hegel or

of Skinner. It was Oliver Wendell Holmes who argued most

influentially, I think, for this kind of “external” legal the-

ory;’ the depressing history of social-theoretic jurisprudence

in our century warns us how wrong he was. We wait still for

illumination, and while we wait, the theories grow steadily

more programmatic and less substantive, more radical in

theory and less critical in practice.

This book takes up the internal, participants’ point of

view; it tries to grasp the argumentative character of our

legal practice by joining that practice and struggling with

the issues of soundness and truth participants face. We will

study formal legal argument from the judge’s viewpoint, not

because only judges are important or because we understand

everything about them by noticing what they say, but be-

cause judicial argument about claims of law 1s a useful para-

digm for exploring the central, propositional aspect of legal

practice. Citizens and politictans and law teachers also

worry and argue about what the law 1s, and I might have

taken their arguments as our paradigms rather than the
