Rexe!

INTEGRITY

community should be seen as a distinct moral agent because

the social and intellectual practices that treat community in

this way should be protected. Now we confront an obvious

and deep difficulty. We have grown accustomed in political

life to arguing about social and political institutions in a

certain way: by attacking or defending them on grounds of

justice or fairness. But we cannot hope to defend integrity in

this normal way because we know that integrity will some-

times conflict with what fairness and justice recommend. We

must expand the breadth of political argument if we are to

claim political integrity as a distinct ideal on 1ts own. But

how? Here is one suggestion, though not the only possibility.

French revolutionary rhetoric recognized a political ideal we

have not yet considered. We should look for our defense of

integrity in the neighborhood of fraternity'® or, to use its

more fashionable name, community.

I shall argue that a political society that accepts integrity

as a political virtue thereby becomes a special form of com-

munity, special in a way that promotes its moral authority to

assume and deploy a monopoly of coercive force. This is not

the only argument for integrity, or the only consequence of

recognizing it that citizens might value. Integrity provides

protection against partiality or deceit or other forms of offi-

cial corruption, for example. There 1s more room for favorit-

ism or vindictiveness in a system that permits manufacturers

of automobiles and of washing machines to be governed by

different and contradictory principles of liability. Integrity

also contributes to the efliciency of law 1n the way we no-

ticed earlier. If people accept that they are governed not only

by explicit rules laid down 1n past political decisions but by

whatever other standards flow from the principles these de-

cisions assume, then the set of recognized public standards

can expand and contract organically, as people become

more sophisticated in sensing and exploring what these

principles require in new circumstances, without the need

for detailed legislation or adjudication on each possible

point of conflict. This process works less effectively, to be
