STATUTES

288

they to be combined 1n the overall, composite institutional

intention? His answers must, moreover, establish a fixed mo-

ment when the statute was spoken, when it acquired all the

meaning 1t ever has.

Hercules’ view requires no such structure. He understands

the idea of a statute’s purpose or intention, not as some com-

bination of the purposes or intentions of particular legisla-

tors, but as the upshot of integrity, of taking the interpretive

attitude toward the political events that include the statute’s

enactment. He takes note of the statements the legislators

made 1n the process of enacting it, but he treats them as po-

litical events important in themselves, not as evidence of any

mental state behind them. So he has no need for precise

views about which legislators’ mental states are in question,

or what mental states these are, or how he should combine

them into some super-mental state of the statute or institu-

tion itself. Nor does he suppose any canonical moment of

speech toward which his historical research bends; the his-

tory he interprets begins before a statute i1s enacted and con-

tinues to the moment when he must decide what it now

declares.

Hercules’ methods provide a better interpretation of ac-

tual judicial practice than the speaker’s meaning theory.

The defects of the latter can be cured only by transforming

it, in stages, into Hercules’ method. The three crucial ques-

tions I just mentioned, which must be answered 1n order to

put the speaker’s meaning theory into practice, cannot be

answered just by probing the root model of communication,

just by exploring the internal connections between intention

and legislation conceived as a form of speech. They must be

answered 1n political theory, by taking up particular views

about controversial issues of political morality. So the

speaker’s meaning theory cannot make good 1ts presumed

claims of political neutrality, its ambition to separate a

Jjudge’s personal convictions from the way he reads a statute.

The most plausible answers to the crucial questions, more-

over, push us steadily away from the speaker’s meaning the-
