INTEGRITY

215

support the legitimacy of our institutions, and the political

obligations they assume, as a matter of fraternity, and we

should therefore strive to improve our institutions in that di-

rection. It bears repeating that nothing in this argument

suggests that the citizens of a nation state, or even a smaller

political community, either do or should feel for one another

any emotion that can usefully be called love. Some theories

of ideal community hold out that possibility: they yearn for

each citizen to embrace all others in emotions as profound,

and with an equivalent merger of personality, as those of

lovers or the most intimate friends or the members of an 1n-

tensely devoted family.Ө Of course we could not interpret

the politics of any political community as expressing that

level of mutual concern, nor is this ideal attractive. The gen-

eral surrender of personality and autonomy 1t contemplates

would leave people too little room for leading their own lives

rather than being led along them; it would destroy the very

emotions it celebrates. Our lives are rich because they are

complex 1n the layers and character of the communities we

inhabit. If we felt nothing more for lovers or friends or col-

leagues than the most intense concern we could possibly feel

for all fellow citizens, this would mean the extinction not the

universality of love.

Summary

It is time to collect the strands of a long argument. This

chapter claims that any successful constructive interpreta-

tion of our political practices as a whole recognizes integrity

as a distinct political 1deal that sometimes calls for compro-

mise with other 1deals. Since this is an interpretive claim, it

must be measured along two dimensions. Integrity as a polit-

ical ideal fits and explains features of our constitutional

structure and practice that are otherwise puzzling. So its

standing as part of an overall successful interpretation of

these practices hinges on whether interpreting them in this

way helps show them 1n a better light. We noticed various
