INTEGRITY IN LAW

b

role in adjudication and that the shape of the law at any

time reflects 1deology and power as well as what is wrongly

called ““logic.” They also aim to make law students more

sensitive to other disciplines, particularly French linguistics

and Hegelian metaphysics. Their political attitudes place

them, as a group, on the left of the American political spec-

trum (they have been particularly active in various aspects

of law school politics), and much of their writing opposes

what they take to be conservative developments in legal the-

ory. In particular they oppose the other main academic

movement in recent American legal education, sometimes

called the economic approach to law, which we study in

Chapter 8.

In all this, save in its self-conscious leftist posture and its

particular choice of other disciplines to celebrate, critical

legal studies resembles the older movement of American

legal realism, and it is too early to decide whether it 1s more

than an anachronistic attempt to make that dated move-

ment reflower. Much of its rhetoric, like that of legal realism,

1s borrowed from external skepticism: its members are fond

of short denunciations of ‘“objectivism” or ‘“natural law

metaphysics” or of the idea of values “out there” in the uni-

verse. At its best and most promising, however, it escapes the

limits of legal realism by reaching for the global and threat-

ening form of internal skepticism I just described. It argues

that our legal culture, far from having any shape amenable

to a uniform and coherent justification of principle, can only

be grasped through the infertile metric of contradiction. It

would reject, as I said an internal skeptic might, Hercules’

latest account of independent, though sometimes conflicting,

principles respecting individual loss 1n accidents. Critical

legal studies would tell a very different story: of two deeply

antagonistic ideologies at war within the law, one drawn,

perhaps, from communitarian impulses of altruism and mu-

tual concern and the other from the contradictory ideas of

egoism, self-sufficiency, and judgmental moralism.

Unfortunately, much of the literature of critical legal
