WHAT IS LAW?

L7

of words that can be spoken or written and a poem con-

ceived as the expression of a particular metaphysical theory

or point of view. Literary critics all agree about what poem

“Sailing to Byzantium” is in the first sense. They agree it is

the series of words designated as that poem by W. B. Yeats.

But they nevertheless disagree about what the poem is in the

second sense, about what the poem really says or means.

They disagree about how to construct the “real” poem, the

poem 1n the second sense, from the text, the poem in the first

SE€ISE.

In much the same way, judges before whom a statute 1is

laid need to construct the ‘“real’” statute—a statement of

what difference the statute makes to the legal rights of vari-

ous people—from the text in the statute book. Just as literary

critics need a working theory, or at least a style of interpre-

tation, in order to construct the poem behind the text, so

judges need something like a theory of legislation to do this

for statutes. This may seem evident when the words in the

statute book suffer from some semantic defect; when they are

ambiguous or vague, for example. But a theory of legislation

1s also necessary when these words are, from the linguistic

point of view, impeccable. The words of the statute of wills

that figured in Elmer’s case were neither vague nor ambigu-

ous. The judges disagreed about the impact of these words

on the legal rights of Elmer, Goneril, and Regan because

they disagreed about how to construct the real statute in the

special circumstances of that case.

The dissenting opinion, written by Judge Gray, argued for

a theory of legislation more popular then than it is now. This

Is sometimes called a theory of “literal” interpretation,

though that is not a particularly illuminating description. It

proposes that the words of a statute be given what we might

better call their acontextual meaning, that is, the meaning

we would assign them if we had no special information

about the context of their use or the intentions of their au-

thor. This method of interpretation requires that no con-

text-dependent and unexpressed qualifications be made to
