INTEGRITY

211

The third model of community 1s the model of principle.

It agrees with the rulebook model that political community

requires a shared understanding, but it takes a more gener-

ons and comprehensive view of what that understanding is.

It insists that people are members of a genuine political com-

munity only when they accept that their fates are linked in

the following strong way: they accept that they are governed

by common principles, not just by rules hammered out in

political compromise. Politics has a different character for

such people. It 1s a theater of debate about which principles

the community should adopt as a system, which view it

should take of justice, fairness, and due process, not the dif-

ferent story, appropriate to the other models, in which each

person tries to plant the flag of his convictions over as large a

domain of power or rules as possible. Members of a society of

principle accept that their political rights and duties are not

exhausted by the particular decisions their political institu-

tions have reached, but depend, more generally, on the

scheme of principles those decisions presuppose and endorse.

So each member accepts that others have rights and that he

has duties flowing from that scheme, even though these have

never been formally identified or declared. Nor does he sup-

pose that these further rights and duties are conditional on

his wholehearted approval of that scheme; these obligations

arise from the historical fact that his community has

adopted that scheme, which is then special to it, not the as-

sumption that he would have chosen 1t were the choice en-

tirely his. In short, each accepts political integrity as a

distinct political ideal and treats the general acceptance of

that 1deal, even among people who otherwise disagree about

political morality, as constitutive of political community.

Now our stage is properly set (or rather managed) for the

crucial question. Each of these three models of community

describes a general attitude that members of a political com-

munity take toward one another. Would political practices

expressing one or another of these attitudes satisfy the con-

ditions of true associative community we identified? We
