INTEGRITY

213

crucial legislative stage with no sense of responsibility or

concern for those whom he pretends, once every possible ad-

vantage has been secured at their expense, to count as broth-

ers. The familiar version of the argument from fair

play—these are the rules under which you have benefited

and you must play by them—is particularly appropriate to a

rulebook community, which takes politics, as I said, to be a

kind of game. But that 1s the version of the argument most

vulnerable to all the objections we began by noticing.

The model of principle satisfies all our conditions, at least

as well as any model could in a morally pluralistic society. It

makes the responsibilities of citizenship special: each citizen

respects the principles of fairness and justice instinct in the

standing political arrangement of his particular community,

which may be different from those of other communities,

whether or not he thinks these the best principles from a

utopian standpoint. It makes these responsibilities fully per-

sonal: 1t commands that no one be left out, that we are all 1n

politics together for better or worse, that no one may be sac-

rificed, like wounded left on the battlefield, to the crusade

for justice overall. The concern it expresses 1s not shallow,

like the crocodile concern of the rulebook model, but gen-

uine and pervasive. It takes hold immediately politics begins

and 1s sustained through legislation to adjudication and en-

forcement. Everyone’s political acts express on every occa-

sion, In arguing about what the rules should be as well as

how they should be enforced, a deep and constant commit-

ment commanding sacrifice, not just by losers but also by the

powerful who would gain by the kind of logrolling and

checkerboard solutions integrity forbids. Its rationale tends

toward equality in the way our fourth condition requires: its

command of integrity assumes that each person is as worthy

as any other, that each must be treated with equal concern

according to some coherent conception of what that means.

An association of principle 1s not automatically a just com-

munity; its conception of equal concern may be defective or

it may violate rights of its citizens or citizens of other nations
