THE COMMON LAW

2o

quences of some activity, because that in 1tself will reduce

community wealth. He therefore stipulates that the calcula-

tion of relative costs must reflect facts and opinions that a

“reasonable” person, devoting a ‘“reasonable” amount of

time and expense to the calculation, would know or have.

Once again, the test of reasonableness would be whether the

community would be richer overall if people devoted that

much time and expense in those circumstances. Community

wealth is maximized by encouraging activities that, in the

ordinary run and on the basis of readily available informa-

tion, improve community wealth, not by forcing people to

examine the full economic consequences of each individual

act in every circumstance.

So an effective “reasonableness” test would exempt some

people from liability even though they caused damage far in

excess of what 1t would have cost them to avoid the activity

that caused the damage. Suppose a train company has cal-

culated, using information readily available to it, that the

cost of slowing down would be greater than the value of the

wheat and other crops it is likely to destroy. But one farmer

has stored his private collection of Renaissance paintings

near the tracks, under deep straw, which burns. It would

have been cheaper for the community, as things turned out,

if this particular train had driven very slowly. But if the

company were liable for such damage, it would have to

make statistical estimates about the amount of loss fluke ac-

cidents might cause to unknown and valuable property not

usually found on farms. This would be more expensive and

less accurate than the sum of the investigations each farmer

would make, about the relative costs of storing his own valu-

able and unusual property elsewhere or buying more insur-

ance, if the risk of such loss fell on him.”

Contributory Negligence

Now consider another possibility. Perhaps it would improve

community wealth to make trains liable for only some of the
