PRAGMATISM AND PERSONIFICATION

oK

ment for this as-if strategy is straightforward enough: civili-

zation 1s impossible unless the decisions of some well-defined

person or group are accepted by everyone as setting public

standards that will be enforced if necessary through the po-

lice power. Only legislation can establish tax rates, structure

markets, fix traffic codes and systems, stipulate permissible

interest rates, or decide which Georgian squares should be

protected from modernization. If judges were seen to pick

and choose among legislation, enforcing only those statutes

they approved, this would defeat the pragmatist’s goal be-

cause 1t would make things not better but much worse. So

pragmatism may be an eligible interpretation of our legal

practice after ally if 1t turns out that our judges declare peo-

ple 1o have legal rights only, or mainly, when a self-con-

scrously |n';|_1;|n.'|lisl ju(lg(‘ would pretend that they did.

Pragmatism miught be less radical in practice than 1t appears

(o bhe l||('m'y.

[t was made to seem very radical by the academic lawyers

I mentioned m Chapter 1, who called themselves legal “real-

1sts.” Some of them took great satisfaction in provocative

statements of their position: there 1s no such thing as law,

they said, or law is only the prediction of what the courts will

do or only a matter of what the judge ate for breakfast. They

sometimes put these dramatic claims in the form of semantic

theories: some of them said that propositions of law are syn-

onymous with predictions of what judges will do, or are only

expressions of emotion and so not really propositions at all.

Realism is now out of fashion, in large part as a consequence

of those silly semantic claims. Obviously propositions of law

are not disguised predictions or expressions of desire. So pro-

fessors of jurisprudence teach their students that legal real-

Ism was an unnecessary exaggeration of facts about legal

practice better described in a less heated way. But pragma-

tism is an interpretive conception of law, not a semantic the-

ory. It 1s, as I shall try now to show, a more powerful and

persuasive conception of law than conventionalism, and a

stronger challenge to law as integrity.
