THE COMMON LAW

RE

ing the music, if you had to, than I would pay for the oppor-

tunity to play it. This may sound callous, reducing the joys

of art and scholarship to money, but it is a perfectly plausi-

ble way of attempting roughly to measure what we want to

discover: the relative importance of the two activities to each

of us 1n our overall schemes of what we want to do with our

lives. It 1s a better test for this purpose than any comparison

of the pleasure or enjoyment each of us would gain or lose, or

of the relative importance of the activities from the stand-

point of the ethically best life.

Suppose, however, that what I want to do will aftfect not

only you but many other people as well. If my train speeds

and sends out sparks, this will increase the price that people

generally must pay for bread; if the train slows and the grain

is saved, this will increase the price of transporting the peo-

ple and goods the train carries. Because this 1s a commercial

case, however, the impact on others i1s adequately repre-

sented 1n the comparison between what my train company

and your farm stand to lose under each decision. But the

trumpet and algebra case is different. The effects of my deci-

sion on others, if these should count at all, would have to be

figured separately. Perhaps playing my trumpet is more im-

portant to me, measured by what I would spend for the priv-

ilege 1f necessary, than my silence is to you or any other

single neighbor, but less important than my silence is to all

the neighbors collectively, as a group. Which comparison

should be decisive for the principle of comparative harm?

This 1s a difficult question, and both answers have some 1ni-

tial plausibility. But the second answer seems better. If

equality of resources can be assumed already to hold not

only between us, but throughout the community of those

whom my practicing will affect, then I must measure the cost

of some opportunity I might take for myself by measuring its

importance for others generally; the true cost to others of my

playing the trumpet 1s what they, together, would be willing

to spend to make me stop.
