448

NOTES TO PAGES 343-352

B

Hercules must prefer an account of any single statute that also

shows a high order of consistency in policy, for his justification

does not otherwise show the legislative event in a good light. A

single legislature, enacting a single statute, acts incoherently if it

assigns great importance to a particular policy and so imposes se-

vere costs and burdens in order to advance 1t, but yet qualifies the

policy to avoid what are plainly less important costs and burdens

with no corresponding gains to any other policy. A fortior:, of

course, Hercules must respect integrity in principle. He must labor

to avoid anything like a checkerboard justification that combines

contradictory principles to explain different parts of the same stat-

ute. He must avoid this, if he can do so consistently with the text,

even when he suspects that the statute’s text was, as a matter of

historical fact, a lapse in integrity, a compromise of just the sort he

must try to ignore in the statute he constructs. His critics will then

say he is “papering over” historical controversy. That comment,

although true, is no basis for criticism; to say that the historical

compromise over text compromised the real statute the text

created begs the question we have been discussing throughout the

osT el

g. In the case of the United States Congress, I am assuming

that the committee reports of the two chambers are not contradic-

tory. If they are, then they must be treated as an argument about

the best interpretation of the statute enacted by both chambers

rather than a political decision of Congress as a whole in the sense

described 1n the text.

10. See J. L. Austin, “Performative Utterances,” in Philosophical

Papers 223 (3rd ed., New York, 1979) and How to Do Things with

Words (Cambridge, Mass., 1962).

11. Crucial labor legislation in Britain has been repeatedly

amended by both Conscervative and Labour governments. More

contemporary statements of legislative purpose are better guides

to even the sections of the act that were not then amended than

earlier statements directly pertinent to those sections. For a paral-

lel point about American legislation, see Justice Brennan’s opin-

ion in Allis-Chalmers, infra n. 12, at 194.

12. The text’s explanation of controversy about whether a par-

ticular phrase i1s ‘“unclear” is illustrated by the controversy over

the precision of the Civil Rights Act in United Steelworkers of America

[

Weber, 443 U.S.

193 (discussed in A Matter of Principle
