INTEGRITY

vy

and fair society and to recognize rights we do not believe

people would have there. We saw an example of this conflict

in the last chapter. A judge deciding Mc¢Loughlin might think

1t unjust to require compensation for any emotional injury.

But if he accepts integrity and knows that some victims of

emotional injury have already been given a right to com-

pensation, he will have a reason for deciding in favor of Mrs.

McLoughlin nevertheless.

Conflicts among i1deals are common in politics. Even if we

rejected integrity and based our political activity only on

fairness, justice, and procedural due process, we would find

the first two virtues sometimes pulling in opposite directions.

Some philosophers deny the possibility of any fundamental

conflict between justice and fairness because they believe

that one of these virtues in the end derives from the other.

Some say that justice has no meaning apart from fairness,

that in politics, as in roulette, whatever happens through fair

procedures is just. That is the extreme of the idea called jus-

tice as fairness.' Others think that the only test of fairness in

politics is the test of result, that no procedure is fair unless it

1s likely to produce political decisions that meet some inde-

pendent test of justice. That is the opposite extreme, of fair-

ness as justice.” Most political philosophers—and 1 think

most people—take the intermediate view that fairness and

justice are to some degree independent of one another, so

that fair institutions sometimes produce unjust decisions and

unfair institutions just ones.

If that is so, then in ordinary politics we must sometimes

choose between the two virtues in deciding which political

programs to support. We might think that majority rule is

the fairest workable decision procedure in politics, but we

know that the majority will sometimes, perhaps often, make

unjust decisions about the rights of individuals.” Should we

tamper with majority rule by giving special voting strength

to one economic group, beyond what its numbers would jus-

tify, because we fear that straight majority rule would assign

it less than its just share?® Should we accept constitutional
