PRAGMATISM AND PERSONIFICATION

104

pragmatic interpretation, with all its epicycles, might be our

only shield against a terrible indictment.

THE CLAIMS OF INTEGRITY

The great classics of political philosophy are utopian. They

study social justice from the point of view of people commit-

ted in advance to no government or constitution, who are

free to create the ideal state from first principles. So they

imagine people living 1n a prepolitical state of “nature”

writing soclal contracts on blank slates. But real people in or-

dinary politics act within a political structure as well as on 1it.

Politics, for us, is evolutionary rather than axiomatic; we rec-

ognize, In working toward a perfectly just state, that we al-

ready belong to a different one.

Ordinary politics shares with utopian political theory cer-

tain political ideals, the 1deals of a fair political structure, a

just distribution of resources and opportunities, and an equi-

table process of enforcing the rules and regulations that es-

tablish these. I shall call these, for brevity, the virtues of

fairness, justice, and procedural due process. (These names

are somewhat arbitrary; different names are often used in

political philosophy, and sometimes one of the virtues I dis-

tinguish 1s treated as a case of another. Procedural due pro-

cess 1s often called a kind of fairness or a kind of justice, for

example. I include due process as a separate virtue because I

do not believe it collapses into either of the others as I de-

scribe these, but my arguments in this and the following

chapters will pay much more attention to fairness and jus-

tice, and I shall mainly ignore procedural due process.)’

Fairness 1n politics 1s a matter of finding political proce-

dures—methods of electing officials and making their deci-

sions responsive to the electorate—that distribute political

power 1n the right way. That 1s now generally understood, in

the United States and Britain at least, to mean procedures

and practices that give all citizens more or less equal influ-
