THE CONSTITUTION

LW

theory would distinguish between aflirmative action pro-

grams designed to help blacks and Jim Crow laws designed

to keep them 1n a state of economic and social subjugation.

The banned categories theory would treat both in the same

way.

DECIDING BROWN

Which Theory Is the Constitution’s Theory?

Hercules is now ready to test these three accounts of the

constitutional right against discrimination by asking how far

each fits and justifies, and so provides an eligible interpreta-

tion of, American constitutional structure and practice. He

will reject the first theory, which denies any special right

against discrimination and insists only that the welfare or

preferences of each citizen be counted in the same scale,

without restriction as to source or character. Perhaps this

theory would have been adequate under tests of fairness and

fit at some time in our history; perhaps it would have been

adequate when Plessy was decided. It 1s not adequate now,

nor was it in 1954 when Hercules had to decide Brown. It

gains little support from ideals of political fairness. The

American people would almost unanimously have rejected

1t, even In 1954, as not faithful to their convictions about ra-

cial justice. People who supported racial segregation did not

try to justify it by appealing just to the fact of their prefer-

ences, as people might support a decision for a sports sta-

dium rather than an opera house. They thought segregation

was God’s will, or that everyone had a right to live with his

own people, or something of that sort. And those who op-

posed segregation did not rest their case on unrestricted pref-

erence calculations either: they would not have thought the

case for segregation any stronger if there were more racists or

if racists took more pleasure in it. Hercules will think the first

account inadequate in justice as well, and so he will discard

it if either of the other two fit constitutional practice well

enough to be eligible.
