WHAT IS LAW?

—

Y

which he calls the “letter” of the statute, and the real statute,

which he calls the “statute” itself.) It would be absurd, he

thought, to suppose that the New York legislators who origi-

nally enacted the statute of wills intended murderers to in-

herit, and for that reason the real statute they enacted did

not have that consequence.

We must take some care in stating what Judge Earl meant

about the role intention should play in constructing statutes.

He did not mean that a statute can have no consequence the

legislators did not have in mind. This is plainly too strong as

a general rule: no legislator can have in mind all the conse-

quences of any statute he votes for. The New York legislators

could not have contemplated that people might bequeath

computers, but it would be absurd to conclude that the stat-

ute does not cover such bequests. Nor did he mean only that

a statute can contain nothing that the legislators intended

that 1t not contain. This seems more plausible, but it is too

weak to be of any use in Elmer’s case. For it seems likely that

the New York legislators did not have the case of murderers

in mind at all. They did not intend that murderers inherit,

but neither did they intend that they should not. They had

no active intention either way. Earl meant to rely on a prin-

ciple we might call intermediate between these excessively

strong and weak principles: he meant that a statute does not

have any consequence the legislators would have rejected if

they had contemplated it.'*

Judge Earl did not rely only on his principle about legisla-

tive intention; his theory of legislation contained another rel-

cvant principle. He said that statutes should be constructed

[rom texts not in historical i1solation but against the back-

eround of what he called general principles of law: he meant

that judges should construct a statute so as to make 1t con-

form as closely as possible to principles of justice assumed

clsewhere 1n the law. He offered two reasons. First, it 1s sen-

sible to assume that legislators have a general and diffuse in-

(ention to respect traditional principles of justice unless they

clearly indicate the contrary. Second, since a statute forms
