AV

NOTES TO PAGES 299-307

15. I am mainly ignoring an important issue, which i1s whether

and when we, as individuals, are entitled to take a generally per-

missive attitude toward the use we make of our own property

when we believe that the public scheme is not defensible on any

plausible conception of equality. Various arguments might be

proposed to justify a permissive attitude even under these circum-

stances. Perhaps, for example, the division of responsibility dis-

cussed in the text is the best strategy for achieving a decent level of

equality, under an appropriate conception, even when equality

has not yet been achieved even imperfectly. Or perhaps any other

strategy, which imposes more stringent moral responsibilities on

individuals one by one, would lead to “victimization,” that is, to

moral responsibilities such that any individual who accepted these

would be obligated to assume an economic position worse than

the one he would occupy under a genuinely egalitarian scheme.

Or perhaps most of the decisions individuals make about their

property, one by one, have such diverse and unpredictable conse-

quences that no one could sensibly undertake to make his own

private decisions in such a way as to improve equality overall. See

my “What Is Equality? Part 2,” supra n. 13.

16. Tentative arguments for it are found in “In Defense of

Equality.”

17. See “What Is Equality? Part 2.”

18. The qualification discussed here is sensitive to an issue I left

open earlier in discussing what I called the first problem in the

permissive hypothesis (see n. 15). What justifies our acting, as indi-

viduals day by day, as if the distribution of property in place has

actually achieved equality of resources between us? I am now sup-

posing that our answer in some way relies on judgments of strat-

egy, or appeals to lack of information, in such a way that the

permission does not hold in special circumstances, when someone

knows that his behavior will have an immediate and predictable

impact on equality of resources, that one decision he can make

will improve equality without victimizing him and another will

make an inequality In resources even worse.

19. See “What Is Equality? Part 2,” and A Matter of Principle

chap 17.
