THE CONSTITUTION

384

against discrimination as a trump over any state’s concep-

tion of the general interest. This 1s the right that certain

properties or categories, including race, ethnic background,

and perhaps gender, not be used to distinguish groups of citi-

zens for different treatment, even when the distinction

would advance the general interest on an otherwise permis-

sible conception. A racially segregated school system 1s, on

this account, unconstitutional under all circumstances.

3. Banned sources. The third theory recognizes a different

special right against discrimination. Most conceptions of

equality, including utilitarianism and resource-egalitari-

anism, make the public interest, and therefore proper policy,

sensitive to people’s tastes, preferences, and choices. A com-

munity committed to such a conception will think that cer-

tain decisions of policy are sound simply because preferences

and choices are distributed in a certain way: the fact that

more people want a sports stadium than an opera house, or

that those who want the stadium want it much more, will

justify choosing it, without any assumption that those who

prefer it are worthier or their preferences more admirable.

The third theory insists that people have a right, against this

kind of collective justification, that certain sources or types

of preferences or choices not be allowed to count in that way.

It 1nsists that preferences that are rooted in some form of

prejudice against one group can never count in favor of a

policy that includes the disadvantage of that group. This

right, like the right proposed by the second theory, con-

demns the program of racially segregated education pre-

sented in Brown, though not quite so automatically.

Segregation treats blacks differently, and history shows that

the seat of the different treatment lies in prejudice. So segre-

gation cannot be saved, according to the third account, by

the kind of argument we supposed might save 1t under the

first. It would not matter that a calculation counting all the

preferences of each person as equally important, including

those rooted in prejudice, might show that segregation was

in the general interest, so understood.
