CONVENTIONALISM

N

In one department, criminal law, Anglo-American prac-

tice is very close to unilateralism.'” We believe that no one

should be found guilty of a crime unless the statute or other

piece of legislation establishing that crime is so clear that he

must have known his act was criminal, or would have known

if he had made any serious attempt to discover whether it

was. In the United States this principle has the status of a

constitutional principle, and the Supreme Court has on

many occasions overturned criminal convictions because the

supposed crime was too vaguely defined to give the necessary

notice.'' But our legal practice is not unilateralist in this way

over the broad reaches of the private law that we have

mostly been discussing in this book—judges very often de-

cide for the plaintiff, as they did in McLoughlin, when ac-

cording to conventionalism the plaintiff had no legal right to

win.

Our practice would be very different 1if it were generally

unilateralist. Many fewer lawsuits would be started because

a plaintiff would sue only if he had a clear right to win, in

which case the prospective defendant would never defend

but would pay instead. People might still sue when the facts

were 1n dispute, because each party might hope to convince

the judge or jury that his view of the facts was historically

correct.'* But no cases would be started in the hope of con-

vincing a judge to “extend” an uncontroversial rule in a

controversial way, and (what is even more important) no one

would ever adjust his conduct in anticipation that a court

might extend a rule if for some reason his affairs were

brought before it. So unilateralism is not even a remotely eli-

gible interpretation of our legal conduct and practice.

Strict conventionalism seems more eligible than unilater-

alism precisely because it is bilateral. It does not stipulate

that the defendant has a right to win a lawsuit whenever and

just because the plaintiff does not: it insists that neither side

may have a right to win. But that very fact requires a con-

ventionalist to find a more complex political justification

than the one I just described. He must argue not merely that
