STATUTES

319

peal 1t Of course “decision” may be too strong to describe

the negative attitudes that allow most statutes to survive,

sometimes long after they serve much use. They survive by

mattention and default rather than by any conscious and

collective decision. But even inattention may reflect some

common understanding about the point and detailed conse-

quences of a statute that 1s different from the understanding

held by the legislators who enacted it in the first place; in the

more dramatic cases, when people have campaigned for

amendment or repeal, the decision to let it stand may be

more active and explicit. Should Hermes ever consider the

intentions of the various legislators who might have repealed

the statute over the course of years and decades but did not?

These are not academic questions. Hermes must answer

them before he can put the speaker’s meaning theory to

practical use. He cannot find answers by asking how those

whose intentions count would answer them. For he 1s trying

to discover whose intentions count. He has no option but to

confront these questions in the following spirit. He has opin-

ions about the influence that the attitudes, beliefs, and am-

bitions of particular groups of officials and citizens ought to

have 1n the process of legislation. He will see that one set of

choices he might make about whose intention should count

in calculating legislative intention would, if generally ac-

cepted by judges, bring that process closer to his i1deal, and

that another set would push it farther away. Since the

speaker’s meaning theory does not 1n itself decide whose in-

tention counts, it would be perverse for Hermes to choose

any answers in the second set over those in the first.”

So his judgments about whose thoughts count will be sen-

sitive to his views on the old question whether representative

legislators should be guided by their own opinions and con-

victions, answerable only to their own conscience, and on the

ncwer question whether lobbying, logrolling, and political

action committees are a corruption of the democratic process

or valuable devices for making that process more efficient
