106

JURISPRUDENCE REVISITED

opinion in another case might be more guarded. Suppose the

case does in some way involve discriminatory or otherwise

unjust legislation. The defendant is a Jew, for example, and

the plaintiftf has appealed to some statute that denies Jews

defenses available to Aryans in contract cases. We might still

think the facts just cited justify a weak right in the plaintiff to

win, even if we want to add that this weak right is overrid-

den, all things considered, by a competing moral right in the

defendant, so that Siegfried should do all in his power—even

lie about the law if this would help—to dismiss the claim.

Now make the example more complex. Suppose that from

the point of view of Siegfried’s jurisdiction, these are hard

cases. He and his fellow lawyers disagree about what, pre-

cisely, the pertinent rules of contract law are in the first case

or just how to read the discriminatory statute in the second.

Now we face a new difhculty. In ordinary cases in our own

legal system, we reach opinions about hard cases by asking

which decision flows from the best interpretation we can give

of the legal process as a whole. In our new example, however,

we cannot do this, because we believe that Siegfried’s legal

system 1s too wicked to be justified in any overall interpreta-

tion. In ordinary cases our belief that people have legal

rights flows from and is part of the same interpretation we

use to decide what rights they have. In the new example

these two 1ssues come apart: our reasons for supposing that

people have legal rights are quite special—they depend on

the idea that people should be protected in relying and

planning on law even in wicked places—and they survive

rather than depend on our interpretive judgments of the sys-

tem as a whole. An analogy will be useful in showing how

these issues can come apart. When someone makes a promise

that 1s both ill-advised and vague, two distinct questions

might be asked: whether he has any obligation to keep that

promise and what its content is if he does. The second is an

interpretive question, which we might try to answer by look-

ing at the promise from the point of view of the parties to it

while suspending judgment on the first issue altogether.
