THE CONSTITUTION

374

could not be justified on a passivist account and would

therefore have to be counted as mistakes. On the other hand,

most lawyers already think that some of the decisions passi-

K}

vism does not fit were mistaken: the Dred Scott case,

1ยง 41

which the justices struck down the Missouri Compromise

because they thought slaveowners had constitutionally pro-

tected rights in their slaves, and Lochner,'* in which they said

1t outraged liberty for a state to limit the number of hours a

baker might be employed to work at a stretch. And the pas-

sive creed has had considerable support 1n judicial opinions

and scholarly treatises at almost every stage of constitutional

history. We might well think, therefore, that passivism meets

the threshold test of fit on the first dimension of interpre-

tation; we should therefore turn to the more complex ques-

tion how 1t fares on the other, more substantive tests. Would

constitutional practice be In some way more impressive if

constitutional constraints were very narrow, allowing legisla-

tures to do almost everything the majority wanted?

That question calls for a complex judgment whose struc-

ture we studied in earlier chapters. We recognize different

political virtues, which may compete with one another, in

deciding which interpretation of the equal protection or due

process clause, for example, would make them better in po-

litical morality. Justice is one of these virtues: an interpreta-

tion of equal protection is better, pro tanto, if it comes closer

to realizing what justice actually requires. But fairness is an-

other: an interpretation is also better, pro tanto, if it reflects

convictions that are dominant or at least popular in the

community as a whole than if it expresses convictions un-

popular or rejected there. We can use this structure to iden-

tify arguments the passivist might make to show why his

general account of the Constitution, reading its constraints

on majoritarianism very narrowly, makes it a more attrac-

tive document.

Is the Constitution more just 1if its constraints on majori-

tarian government are minimal? It might be thought so for

two different reasons. The first is straightforward. If someone
