CONVENTIONALISM

R

but these need not be matters of convention. It will be sufh-

cient if the level of agreement in conviction is high enough at

any given time to allow debate over fundamental practices

like legislation and precedent to proceed in the way I de-

scribed in Chapter 2, contesting discrete paradigms one by

one, like the reconstruction of Neurath’s boat one plank at a

time at sea. Second, so many features of our own constitu-

tional practices are debated one at a time in just this way,

that 1t i1s implausible to claim conventionalism as a good in-

terpretation of the process by which our legal culture shifts

and develops over time. Conventionalism fails here as it fails

In cross-section, in explaining how particular hard cases like

our samples are debated and decided. Our judges treat the

techniques they use for interpreting statutes and measuring

precedents—even those no one challenges—not simply as

tools handed down by the traditions of their ancient craft

but as principles they assume can be justified in some deeper

political theory, and when they come to doubt this, for what-

ever reason, they construct theories that seem to them better.

DOES CONVENTIONALISM JUSTIFY OUR PRACTICE?

A conception of law 1s a general, abstract interpretation of

legal practice as a whole. It offers to show that practice in its

best light, to deploy some argument why law on that con-

ception provides an adequate justification for coercion. We

have so far been concerned wholly with one dimension on

which any general interpretation of that sort must be tested.

It must fit our practice, and we have discovered important

reasons for believing that conventionalism does not. What

about the other dimension? If, contrary to my argument,

conventionalism did fit our legal practices, would it provide

a sound or even decent justification of them? I described,

early in this chapter, an argument that it would. This

argument appealed to what I called the ideal of protected

expectation, that collective force should be used only in ac-
