INTEGRITY IN LAW

243

cst to promote overall wealth in this way, but it does not

suppose that anyone has any right that social wealth always

be increased. It therefore sets out a policy that government

might or might not decide to pursue in particular circum-

stances. It does not state a principle of justice, and so it can-

not figure in an interpretation of the sort Hercules now

A

Law as integrity asks judges to assume, so far as this is

possible, that the law 1s structured by a coherent set of prin-

ciples about justice and fairness and procedural due process,

and it asks them to enforce these in the fresh cases that come

before them, so that each person’s situation is fair and just

according to the same standards. That style of adjudication

respects the ambition integrity assumes, the ambition to be a

community of principle. But as we saw at the end of Chap-

ter 6, integrity does not recommend what would be perverse,

that we should all be governed by the same goals and strate-

gies of policy on every occasion. It does not insist that a legis-

lature that enacts one set of rules about compensation today,

in order to make the community richer on the whole, is in

any way committed to serve that same goal of policy tomor-

row. For 1t might then have other goals to seek, not necessar-

illy in place of wealth but beside it, and integrity does not

frown on this diversity. Our account of interpretation, and

our consequent elimination of interpretation (3) read as a

naked appeal to policy, reflects a discrimination already la-

tent in the ideal of integrity itself.

We reach the same conclusion in the context of McLoughlin

through a different route, by further reflection on what we

have learned about interpretation. An interpretation aims to

show what 1s interpreted in the best light possible, and an

interpretation of any part of our law must therefore attend

not only to the substance of the decisions made by earlier of-

ficials but also to how—by which officials in which circum-

stances—these decisions were made. A legislature does not

need reasons of principle to justify the rules it enacts about

driving, including rules about compensation for accidents,
