INTEGRITY

IN LAW

SRR

Someone might take that putative redemption to be a final

act of hypocrisy, though only at the cost of taking much else

in the text not at face value. This would be a poor interpre-

tation, not because no one could think 1t a good one, but be-

cause 1t 1s in fact, on all the criteria so far described, a poor

one.

2

But now suppose you have been given only the first few

sections of A Christmas Carol. You find that neither of the two

interpretations you are considering is decisively ruled out by

anything in the text so far; perhaps one would better explain

some minor incidents of plot that must be left unconnected

on the other, but each interpretation can be seen generally to

flow through the abbreviated text as a whole. A competent

novelist who set out to write a novel along either of the lines

suggested could well have written what you find on the

pages. In that case you have a further decision to make. Your

assignment is to make of the text the best it can be, and you

will therefore choose the interpretation you believe makes

the work more significant or otherwise better. That decision

will probably (though not inevitably) depend on whether

you think that real people somewhat like Scrooge are born

bad or are corrupted by capitalism. But it will depend on

much else as well, because your aesthetic convictions are not

so simple as to make only this aspect of a novel relevant to its

overall success. Suppose you think that one interpretation

integrates not only plot but image and setting as well; the

social interpretation accounts, for example, for the sharp

contrast between the individualistic fittings and partitions of

Scrooge’s countinghouse and the communitarian formless-

ness of Bob Cratchit’s household. Now your aesthetic judg-

ment—about which reading makes the continuing novel

better as a novel—is itself more complex because it must

identify and trade off different dimensions of value in a

novel. Suppose you believe that the original sin reading is

much the more accurate depiction of human nature, but

that the sociorealist reading provides a deeper and more in-

teresting formal structure for the novel. You must then ask
