THE CONSTITUTION

394

Brown. Is the banned categories theory a more successful in-

terpretation of the pertinent constitutional practice, all

things considered, than the banned sources theory? A prac-

tical constitutional standard enforcing the banned sources

theory would designate certain racial classifications as sus-

pect. But it would not be necessary to include in the list of

suspect classifications a distinction obviously designed to aid

historical victims of prejudice. Perhaps institutions that used

racial quotas should have the burden, under that theory, of

showing that these did not reflect covert prejudice against

some other group. But Davis could have met that burden, so

under the banned sources theory it would not have violated

Bakke’s constitutional right. It would have violated his

rights according to the banned categories theory, however.

The academic as well as practical elaboration of that theory

i1s just a list of properties that must not be used to distinguish

groups one of which thereby gains an advantage over the

other. Race must be prominent in any such list, and Davis

used racial classifications that disadvantaged whites like

Bakke.

So Hercules must choose between the two theories, and he

will prefer the banned sources to the banned categories the-

ory. Though banned categories fits the decisions about racial

discrimination up to Bakke as well as banned sources does—

it fits the language used in these decisions better—it does not

fit constitutional or political practice more generally.

Banned categories, as it stands, is too arbitrary to count as a

genuine interpretation under law as integrity. It must be

supported by some principled account of why the particular

properties it bans are special, and the only principle avail-

able is that people must never be treated differently in virtue

of properties beyond their control. This proposition has been

decisively rejected throughout American law and politics.

Statutes almost invariably draw lines along natural differ-

ences of geography and health and ability: they subsidize

workers who have by chance come to work 1n one industry

or even firm rather than another, for example, and restrict
