2860

THE COMMON LAW

using words, like “reasonable under the circumstances,” that

call for more specific calculation on particular occasions, or

they could construct crude rules, clear in themselves, that

1ignore subtleties. We are looking for a moral theory, then,

whose practical rather than academic elaboration would re-

quire market-simulating rules of law. Nevertheless, when we

come to inspect any such theory, to see whether it is sound as

a moral theory, we must study its academic elaboration, be-

cause then we are concerned, not with the practical adjust-

ments required to make that theory manageable and

efficient in politics and daily life, but with the very different

question whether we can accept that theory in the first place.

If we cannot accept its academic elaboration because some

part of this strikes us as morally wrong, the theory is not res-

cued because its practical elaboration would be different.

For 1t 1s the academic elaboration that reveals the true na-

ture or character of a moral theory. We shall see the impor-

tance of this distinction at once when we consider the most

natural, because simplest, defense of market-simulating rules

on moral grounds.

Do We Have a Duty to Maximize Wealth?

This defense lies in a two-step argument. (1) People have a

moral duty to advance the good of the community as a

whole in whatever they do and a corresponding moral right

that others always act in that way. (2) The good of the com-

munity as a whole lies 1n its overall wealth according to the

definition I described earlier; a community 1s always better

when it is richer in that sense. The second step of this argu-

ment 1s absurd, as we learn by considering the academic

elaboration of the claim that a richer society 1s necessarily a

better society.” Suppose a poor, sick man needs medicine and

1s therefore willing to sell a favored book, his sole source of

pleasure, for the $5 the medicine costs. His neighbor is will-

ing to pay $10 to have the book, if necessary, because he is

the famous (and rich) grandson of the author, and if he au-
