180

INTEGRITY

Can we defend these instincts on grounds of justice? Jus-

tice 1s a matter of outcomes: a political decision causes injus-

tice, however fair the procedures that produced it, when it

denies people some resource, liberty, or opportunity that the

best theories of justice entitle them to have. Can we oppose

the checkerboard strategy on the ground that it would pro-

duce more instances of injustice than it would prevent? We

must be careful not to confuse two 1ssues here. Of course any

single checkerboard solution of an important issue will pro-

duce more instances of injustice than one of the alternatives

and fewer than the other. The community can unite over

that proposition while disagreeing about which alternative

would be more and which less just. Someone who believes

that abortion i1s murder will think that the checkerboard

abortion statute produces more injustice than outright pro-

hibition and less than outright license; someone who believes

women have a right to abortion reverses these judgments. So

both have a reason of justice for preferring some other solu-

tion to the checkerboard one. Our question is whether we

collectively have a reason of justice for not agreeing, in ad-

vance of these particular disagreements, to the checkerboard

strategy for resolving them. We have a reason of fairness, as

we just noticed, for that checkerboard strategy, and if we

have no reason of justice against it, our present practice

needs a justification we have not yet secured.

We are looking for a reason of justice we all share for re-

jecting the checkerboard strategy in advance even if we

would each prefer a checkerboard solution on some occa-

sions to the one that will be imposed 1f the strategy is re-

jected. Shall we just say that a checkerboard solution is

unjust by definition because it treats different people dif-

ferently for no good reason, and justice requires treating like

cases alike? This suggestion seems in the right neighborhood,

for if checkerboard solutions do have a defect, it must lie 1n

their distinctive feature, that they treat people differently

when no principle can justify the distinction. But we cannot

explain why this is always objectionable, so long as we re-
