THE CONSTITUTION

3738

way that mocks the very idea of constitutional rights, is the

paramount constitutional virtue. If we reject those unap-

pealing ideas, we reject passivism. Does that mean we must

accept the contrary theory, the bogeyman theory the passi-

vists call “‘activism’’?

Activism is a virulent form of legal pragmatism. An activ-

ist justice would ignore the Constitution’s text, the history of

its enactment, prior decisions of the Supreme Court inter-

preting it, and long-standing traditions of our political cul-

ture. He would i1gnore all these in order to impose on other

branches of government his own view of what justice de-

mands. Law as integrity condemns activism, and any prac-

tice of constitutional adjudication close to it. It insists that

justices enforce the Constitution through interpretation, not

fiat, meaning that their decisions must fit constitutional

practice, not ignore it. An interpretive judgment does engage

political morality, in the complex way we have been study-

ing for several chapters. But it gives effect, not just to justice

but to a variety of political virtues, some of which conflict

with and check others. One of these is fairness: law as integ-

rity is sensitive to a nation’s political traditions and culture

and therefore to a conception of fairness that is fit for a con-

stitution. The alternative to passivism is not a crude activism

harnessed only to a judge’s sense of justice, but a more fine-

grained and discriminating judgment, case by case, that

gives place to many political virtues but, unlike either activ-

ISm or passivism, gives tyranny to none.

We have now finished our short review of the present state

of academic constitutional theory in the United States. One

final observation might be wise. I have been arguing against

historicism and passivism as general interpretations of

American constitutional practice. I have not argued that

every nation ought to have a written constitution with ab-

stract provisions about individual rights, or that every such

constitution ought to be interpreted by a court whose mem-

bers are chosen in just the way Supreme Court justices are

appointed. Many arrangements other than those now em-
