oL

THE CONSTITUTION

description. It ignores the interpretive character of law. Jus-

tices who are called liberal and those who are called conser-

vative agree about which words make up the Constitution as

a matter of preinterpretive text. They disagree about what

the Constitution is as a matter of postinterpretive law, about

what standards it deploys for testing official acts. Each kind

of justice tries to enforce the Constitution as law, according

to his interpretive judgment of what it 1s, and each kind

thinks the other is subverting the true Constitution. So it is

useless as well as unfair to classify justices according to the

degree of their fidelity to their oath.

Nor is 1t clear that the popular distinction between con-

servative and liberal justices is a useful distinction at all.

Justices who were thought liberal when appointed were later

thought conservative—Felix Frankfurter is the most cited

example—and justices who seem conservative in one way

because they make decisions that please people of conserva-

tive political opinions seem liberal, even radical, in another

because they disregard constitutional precedent to do this.’

Law as integrity provides a somewhat more accurate grid of

classification through its analytical distinction among di-

mensions of interpretation. If we insist on classifying justices

along some liberal/conservative spectrum, we must make the

distinction separately for two dimensions and so create four

boxes rather than two. A justice will count as conservative on

the first dimension if his convictions about fit are strict: if he

demands, for example, that any interpretation of constitu-

tional doctrine match the concrete convictions of the “fram-

ers’ of the Constitution or, differently, of past justices of the

Supreme Court. He will count as liberal on the first dimen-

sion 1f his opinions about fit are more relaxed. A parallel dis-

tinction may be drawn along the substantive dimension. A

justice will count as conservative if the political convictions

he expresses in choosing among interpretations eligible on

grounds of fit are those we associate with political conserva-

tism: if he favors a retributivist philosophy of punishment,

for example, or free enterprise in economic affairs. He will
