202

INTEGRITY

which they do not even “barely” belong just because other

members are disposed to treat them as such. I would not be-

come a citizen of Fij1 if people there decided for some reason

to treat me as one of them. Nor am I the friend of a stranger

sitting next to me on a plane just because he decides he is a

friend of mine.

Conflicts with Justice

An 1mportant reservation must be made to the argument so

far. Even genuine communities that meet the several condi-

tions just described may be unjust or promote injustice and

so produce the conflict we have already noticed 1n different

ways, between the integrity and justice of an institution.

Genuine communal obligations may be unjust in two ways.

First, they may be unjust to the members of the group: the

conception of equal concern they reflect, though sincere,

may be defective. It may be a firm tradition of family orga-

nization in some community, for example, that equal con-

cern for daughters and sons requires parents to exercise a

kind of dominion over one relaxed for the other.** Second,

they may be unjust to people who are not members of the

group. Social practice may define a racial or religious group

as associative, and that group may require its members to

discriminate against nonmembers socially or in employment

or generally. If the consequences for strangers to the group

are grave, as they will be if the discriminating group is large

P&

or powerful within a larger community, this will be unjust.

In many cases, requiring that sort of discrimination will

conflict, not just with duties of abstract justice the group’s

members owe everyone else, but also with associative obliga-

tions they have because they belong to larger or different as-

sociative communities. For if those who do not belong to my

race or religion are my neighbors or colleagues or (now I an-

ticipate the argument to follow) my fellow citizens, the

question arises whether I do not have responsibilities to

them, flowing from those associations, that I 1gnore in defer-
