INTEGRITY IN LAW

oY B

in that injury. (5) People have a moral right to compensa-

tton for emotional or physical injury that 1s the consequence

of careless conduct, but only if that injury was reasonably

foreseeable by the person who acted carelessly. (6) People

have a moral right to compensation for reasonably foresee-

able injury but not in circumstances when recognizing such

a right would impose massive and destructive financial bur-

dens on people who have been careless out of proportion to

their moral fault.

These are all relatively concrete statements about rights

and, allowing for a complexity in (3) we explore just below,

they contradict one another. No more than one can figure in

a single interpretation of the emotional injury cases. (I post-

pone the more complex case in which Hercules constructs an

interpretation from competitive rather than contradictory

principles, that is, from principles that can live together in

an overall moral or political theory though they sometimes

pull in different directions.)> Even so, this is only a partial

list of the contradictory interpretations someone might wish

to consider; Hercules chooses it as his initial short list be-

cause he knows that the principles captured in these inter-

pretations have actually been discussed 1n the legal

literature. It will obviously make a great difference which of

these principles he believes provides the best interpretation

of the precedents and so the nerve of his postinterpretive

judgment. If he settles on (1) or (2), he must decide for Mr.

O’Brian; if on (4), for Mrs. McLoughlin. Each of the others

requires further thought, but the line of reasoning each sug-

gests 1s different. (3) invites an economic calculation. Would

it reduce the cost of accidents to extend liability to emo-

tional injury away from the scene? Or is there some reason to

think that the most efficient line is drawn just between emo-

tional injuries at and those away from the scene? (5) requires

a judgment about foreseeability of injury, which seems to be

very different, and (6) a judgment both about foreseeability

and the cumulative risk of financial responsibility if certain

injuries away from the scene are included.
