NOTES TO PAGES 185-198

NN

ment to integrity of the framers of the Fourteenth Amendment.

11. Roe v. Wade, 410 U.S. 113.

12. See United States Supreme Court, Thornburgh v. American

College of Obstetricians, Brief for the United States as Amicus

Curiae, July 1985,

13. The word is unfortunate because it 1s etymologically mascu-

line. I mean sorority as well, or the idea common to these latinate

terms.

14. I am grateful to Jeremy Waldron for calling Kant and

Rousseau to my attention in this connection.

15. See the discussion of legal rights in negligence and nuisance

in Chapter 8.

16. See Rawls, Theory of Justice at 11-22, 118-g2.

17. Id. at 333-62. Sce also his “Kantian Constructivism’ at 56q.

18. Though this name for the argument 1s in wide use, Rawls

(and Nozick and others following them) call 1t the argument from

the principle of fairness. I do not use the latter name because I use

“fairness” in the different way described in Chapter 5 and this

chapter.

19. This i1s an adaptation of Robert Nozick’s argument against

the fair play principle as the basis of political authority. See his

Anarchy, State and Utopra 93-95 (New York, 1974).

20. Family shows that different {raternal relations are matters

of choice not only to different degrees but also in different senses of

choice. It also shows that fraternal reasons can be differently

mixed with other sorts of reasons for recognizing various forms of

obligation. Parents choose to have children but do not, in the pres-

ent state of technology at least, choose the children they have.

Children do not choose their parents but often have grounds for

obligations to them they do not have to siblings, whom they do

not choose any more than they do parents. It i1s therefore interest-

ing that the class of obligations we are considering is named after

the bond between siblings taken as a paradigm for the class.

21. Can we solve this puzzle about fixing the right level of con-

creteness for the demands of reciprocity by separating the ques-

tion of when people are members of a fraternal community from

the question of what each then owes others within that commu-

nity? If so, it would be one question when someone is my friend,

and another how I must treat him in virtue of our friendship. If

this separation were sensible, we might answer the latter question
