360

THE CONSTITUTION

R

academic form of the crude popular mistake that some

judges obey the Constitution and others disregard 1t. It ig-

nores the philosophical character of law as interpretive.

Every conscientious judge, in either of the supposed camps,

is an Interpretivist in the broadest sense: each tries to impose

the best interpretation on our constitutional structure and

practice, to see these, all things considered, in the best light

they can bear. They disagree about what the best interpre-

tation is, but it 1s an analytical error, a localized infection

left by the semantic sting, to confuse this with a disagree-

ment about whether constitutional adjudication should be

interpretive at all. The great debates of constitutional meth-

od are debates within interpretation, not about its relevance.

If one justice thinks the intentions of the framers are much

more important than another does, this 1s the upshot of a

more foundational interpretive disagreement. The former

thinks that fairness or integrity requires that any sound inter-

pretation match the framers’ state of mind; the latter does not.

It 1s easy enough, however, to repair the academic distinc-

tion In just this way. We may use ‘“historicist” to refer to

those it calls interpretivists. A historicist, we now say, has

settled on a style of constitutional adjudication that limits el-

igible interpretations of the Constitution to principles that

express the historical intentions of the framers. He will not

accept that the equal protection clause outlaws state-im-

posed segregation unless he is satisfied that those he counts

as framers thought it did. Or, somewhat weaker, unless he is

satisfied that the framers did not think the clause did not

outlaw segregation. In fact the Fourteenth Amendment was

proposed by lawmakers who thought they were not outlaw-

ing racially segregated education. The floor manager of the

civil rights bill that preceded the amendment told the House

that “civil rights do not mean that all children shall attend

the same schoo

13336

and the same Congress continued to seg-

regate the schools of the District of Columbia after the Four-

teenth Amendment had entered the Constitution. For the
