CONVENTIONALISM

o3

If the leading legal institutions like legislation and precedent

are conventions, they are conventions of this different, more

open kind. Lawyers agree on certain abstract formulations of

these conventions—they agree that legislation and precedent

are, in principle, sources of law. But they take the interpre-

tive attitude toward these abstract propositions, and their

opinions about Elmer’s legal rights express an interpretation

rather than a direct and uncontroversial application of the

institution of legislation. Two lawyers are likely to differ

about the best interpretation of the practices of legislation or

precedent in a particular case because their general political

and moral convictions differ.

So the distinguishing claim of conventionalism, that law is

limited to what has been endorsed by legal conventions,

might seem ambiguous. We can expose the ambiguity by in-

troducing some technical distinctions. We define the “exten-

sion” of an abstract convention, like courtesy or legislation

or precedent, as the set of jJudgments or decisions that people

who are parties to the convention are thereby committed to

accept. Now we distinguish between the “explicit” and the

“implicit” extensions of a convention. The explicit extension

is the set of propositions which (almost) everyone said to be a

party to the convention actually accepts as part of its exten-

sion. The implicit extension is the set of propositions that

follow from the best or soundest interpretation of the con-

vention, whether or not these form part of the explicit exten-

sion. Suppose there 1s a convention in some legal community

that judges must give both sides an equal opportunity to

state their case. Everyone agrees that this means both sides

must be heard, but it is disputed whether it also means that

both sides must have equal time even though the arguments

of one side are more complex or require more witnesses than

the other. The explicit extension of the abstract convention

then includes the proposition that both sides must be heard,

but 1t does not include either the proposition that they must

have equal time or the contrary proposition that the party

with the more difhicult case must have more time. Everyone
