1

STATUTES

it treats legislation as flowing from the community’s present

commitment to a background scheme of political morality.

The practice of legislative history, of formal declarations of

general institutional purpose and convictions made on be-

half of the state itself, expresses and confirms that attitude.

The practice also protects one of the practical advantages of

a community of principle: it encourages citizens to rely on a

particular account of the public scheme when they develop

and enforce it themselves. But these advantages depend on

just the kind of moral distance between the explicit decisions

of the statute and the explanatory system of legislative his-

tory that we find in personal morality. They depend on

treating the various official statements that make up the ex-

planatory system as having mainly a reporting rather than a

performative function. Legislative history offers a contempo-

rary interpretation of the statute it surrounds, an interpreta-

tion that may later be revised by courts or the legislature

itself, even though any important revision would, in retro-

spect, make the legislative history a matter of regret.

A community of principle 1s best served by a complex

structure of legislation like that, a structure that includes a

distinction between performative legislative acts and inter-

pretive explanations of these acts. So Hercules has reasons

both for counting the formal statements that make up legis-

lative history as acts of the state and for not treating them as

part of the statute itself. He must take them into account in

deciding which story of the legislative event is overall the

best story, but he must do this in the right way. He acknowl-

edges that legislation 1s seen in a better light, all else being

equal, when the state has not misled the public; for that rea-

son he will prefer an interpretation that matches the formal

statements of legislative purpose, particularly when citizens

might well have made crucial decisions relying on these

statements. If the legislative debates surrounding the statute

of wills had been studded with uncontradicted statements

that wills must be read in an acontextual way—giving their
